





STITCHED UP

MARTIN PARSONS


Dedicated to 

Oliver Dennis



the last of my grandchildren to have a book dedicated to them.












PREFACE
The TypeVIIC U-boat slid quietly on the surface into the deep sound.  Submersion at this point was not necessary as there were no lights from the shore and the cursory minefield was easily negotiable. The fact that there was little in the way of coastal fortifications made this the ideal place for a landing.  The problems could come afterwards, but that was not the Commander’s problem. As soon as he had deposited his cargo his job was done, and he could return to his base at St Nazaire on the west coast of France. 

Five of the crew gathered at the rear of the vessel. They lowered a small black inflatable into the sea and attached it securely to the side.  As one of the men stepped into it, the mysterious passenger who they had brought from France carefully walked along the gratings carrying two suitcases. He climbed down into the boat and sat opposite the sailor.  At a silent command the rope was released, and the dinghy was rowed towards the beach, now less than a hundred yards away.
Throughout the war, St Mary’s in the Isles of Scilly lying 28 miles south-west of Land’s End was literally the Achilles heel of the UK shore defences.  
At the beginning there was little in the way of modern protection. There was an insignificant naval presence comprising a couple of destroyers, a small army garrison, and a few flying boats. It wasn’t until 1941 that the garrison doubled in size and six Hurricanes were based there. Now, in the summer of 1943, little had changed.  
The one weakness was that although surrounded by some minefields and shore defences, the community still maintained its daily shipping links with the mainland via the Scillonian steamship. Anyone travelling to Penzance required no documentation other than their identity card and a ticket bought from the company office in Hugh Town, thus enabling any agent to get into the UK…providing of course that they could get to the islands in the first place.

The stranger, Helmut Schnitter, originally from Hamburg, climbed out of the boat, gave a cursory wave to the oarsman, walked across the shingle, clambered over the stone abutments and settled down in the lee of the wall to wait for morning. There was little chance that he would be discovered as this was not a well- trodden path, certainly not so early in the morning. 

After a fitful attempt at sleep, he rose and made his way along the footpath, past the Georgian façade of the Duchy of Cornwall office and the Tudor designed Star-Castle and proceeded down the steep descent into Hugh Town.  All he needed to do now was act like a man with business on the island, buy his ticket and catch the 16.30 boat to Penzance.

However, unbeknown to Schnitter his arrival was not unexpected.  Three months previously, in March, MI5 had received a coded message from a source deep in the Abwehr that German Intelligence was in the process of gathering information about a possible Allied attack on Europe.  Agents were being trained to enter the UK and simply observe and report back any unusual activity which could be attributed to invasion preparations. 




















