
CHAPTER 1
WILTSHIRE  
May 1932
Lady Cynthia Childreth drew up in front of the imposing Georgian country house in her dark green 1931 Alvis 12/50 tourer one of her few indulgences as its 1500cc engine made it quite an exceptional sports car. She was met by the butler who opened her car door and a uniformed footman who, without asking, removed her cases from the boot. 
‘Good morning, Madam,’ said the butler in a rather clipped voice. ‘Welcome to Denleigh Manor.  I will escort you to her Ladyship who is in the Drawing Room with some of the other guests.  She is of course expecting you. May I ask if you are accompanied by a maid so I can make arrangements for her in the servant’s hall?’
Cynthia considered this a rather wasted question, as she had obviously got out of her car alone, but nonetheless she replied politely. ‘No. only me, although my husband will be joining us later.’ 
‘Very good Madam. I will assign one of our girls to assist you.’
As her car was driven off to be parked somewhere less obtrusive, Cynthia followed the butler into the house and into the Drawing Room where she was announced.
‘Lady Cynthia Childreth, your Ladyship,’ He then turned and left.
The Ladyship in question was Lady Amelia Wyndholme an elegant brown-haired woman of 31 who had been at school with Cynthia some years before. She was married to Horace who was ‘something’ in the Foreign Office. Like Cynthia, her title was her own and not one acquired by marriage. 
Planting air kisses on both her cheeks she greeted her friend.
 ‘Cynthia darling, how are you?’
‘Fine thanks, Amy, and you?’
‘As well as can be expected dear. Coffee?’
Before Cynthia could reply a young girl dressed in a black knee-length dress with a white collar and white apron approached carrying a silver tray.
‘Thankyou. I’ll take it black with no sugar.’ 
Let me introduce you to the others and offering her arm Amy led her to a group by the fireplace, now devoid of heat, because of the season, but neatly stacked with logs, giving the impression that it could be lit immediately if the need arose.
‘Ladies and Gentlemen, may I present Lady Cynthia Childreth, an old friend from school-days. Perhaps you could introduce yourselves while I see cook about lunch,’
This was part of the proceedings that Cynthia hated.  If truth be told she loathed these ritual weekend visits to other people’s houses, when many hosts used the opportunity to simply show off their wealth and privilege. She had only agreed to come because Amy was very insistent that she joined the party and she would not take ‘no’ for an answer. At least she had not had to travel very far from her own expansive house and gardens in Bucklebury, as Berkshire and Wiltshire are adjacent counties and it was less than an hour’s drive along the A4 and a few B roads.

A man of obvious military background came across and shook her hand vigorously. 
‘How do you do? I am Colonel Peter Snowden, and this is my wife Marjorie’ indicating a rather rotund lady standing next to him, and sweeping his arm in an arc he said, ‘Allow me to present the others.’
He indicated to each in turn.
‘Bob and Louise Harrington, Miss Maclean, her companion Miss Gilchrist, and Mr Newton. It seems that the other guests, Sir John and Lady Davies had a prior engagement they couldn’t get out of.’
They all acknowledged her with one simultaneous ‘Good morning.’
Cynthia managed to cope with the small talk by making the right noises and nodding her head at appropriate moments…all the while looking for an escape route that wasn’t immediately apparent. She realised that this could be the precursor of what the weekend had in store. They were all of a type, very ‘country’ in tweeds and sensible shoes, with the exception of Miss Gilchrist who was dressed in black jacket and widely flared trousers, had very short hair and rather surprisingly sported a monocle in her right eye.  Totally different in style from everyone else. 

The butler returned to the room and announced that a ‘cold collation’ was available in the dining room. Dutifully, they all filed along the corridor to be confronted by a large spread of cold meats and pies, fish, salad, cheeses and bread laid out on an adjacent sideboard, enough to feed a small army thought Cynthia. The drinks and glasses were available on a side table which was an exact miniature version of the large one in the centre of the room. 
At least for this stage of the proceedings they would all be seated at the table, rather than have to balance a plate of food in one hand and a drink in the other while making polite conversation. It was a long oval one of some vintage with ball and claw feet and such a highly polished walnut top that you could see your face in it. The burgundy cushioned seats on the chairs complemented the wood. 
Cynthia sat next to Marjorie, who was more intent on eating than making polite conversation, and directly opposite Miss Gilchrist. 
‘Are you local?’ Cynthia asked her.
‘No, Jane and I live in London. Jane is in Amy’s circle but I’m just a hanger on. You?’
‘Amy and I were at school together but I’m not in her ‘circle’ as you put it. She just invited me to spend the weekend with her.’ 
The Harringtons sat at the far end of the table seemingly in deep conversation with Colonel Snowden. Mr Newton remained on his own and did not utter a word throughout the meal. 
After coffee had been served and cleared away, the maid offered to show Cynthia to her room. They ascended the double width staircase to the first floor and entered a large, rather ornate bedroom. All her clothes had been unpacked and had been placed in the paper lined drawers or hung in the wardrobes. 
‘The bathroom and lavatory are along the landing Madam, but you will notice that you have your own washbasin behind the screen.’ She pointed to a red and green lacquered canopy in the corner of the room. ‘If you need anything else, please let me know.’
‘Thank you, I will.’
Cynthia inspected the room. As well as the wardrobe there was large double bed, two chairs and two dressers all in oak, giving the room a dark, rather austere feel. The window overlooked a courtyard at the back of the house where she could see her car parked in front of a brick building which looked like it had at one time been a group of stables, and beyond that was parkland. 
She sat on the bed contemplating what she could do before Richard arrived and noticed an envelope addressed to her on the bedside cabinet. She retrieved the note from inside.
‘Cynthia
Please excuse this rather cloak and dagger way of communicating with you, but I could not do it openly for reasons you may work out at dinner. My invitation to you to spend the weekend here, was not entirely altruistic. I was instructed to do so. Over the next couple of days, you will be approached by one of the guests, even I’m not sure which one, who apparently wants to talk to you on some matter of importance. 
Amy’

How very strange thought Cynthia? Why would anyone want to contact her here rather than at home and who would it be? More to the point was what the matter of importance.
Although considered by some as being a little unconventional, as far as Cynthia was concerned, she was very ordinary. She had travelled extensively around Europe often driving herself, spoke French and German fluently, and her political leanings could be described as middle of the road. Despite her upbringing and wealth, she hated the trappings of class and the keeping up of appearances that went with it.  In consequence she had mostly shunned the social events associated with her privileged background and instead, out of choice, had pursued a rather more concealed lifestyle which she described as being ‘in the shadows.’  Cynthia could not be described as an archetypal aristocrat or ‘lady.’ Her teachers would certainly attest to the latter she thought. 

She had married well, a financier who had worked his way to the top of the company by hard graft and determination. To outsiders their marriage looked stable and firm, but it was really just one of convenience and both parties had had their dalliances. 

With nothing else to do Cynthia took a book from her shoulder bag, the recently published ‘Have his Carcase’ by Dorothy Sayers, she often fancied herself as a female Lord Peter Wimsey, went downstairs and made her way to the garden.  

The Harringtons had changed and were now playing tennis, Mr Newton, the Colonel and Miss Maclean were making good use of the croquet mallets and Marjorie Snowden was taking a nap in the chair. There was no sign of Miss Gilchrist.

She settled down to read, but the next thing she knew she was feeling a gentle tap on her shoulder. 
‘Darling. Wake up you’re snoring.’
Cynthia came too with a start. 
‘Richard. When did you arrive?’
‘About an hour ago. You were fast asleep, and I didn’t want to wake you. It was only when you started to snore loudly that I decided to disturb you as you would have considered it unladylike.’ 
He raised a cup in mock salute.  ‘Would you like a cup of tea? I’ll have one brought out.’ Before she could answer Richard rose and went back inside the house returning with the maid carrying a tray containing all the accoutrements for making tea…including a plate of shortbread biscuits. 
‘Your tea Madam. Shall I pour?’
‘No, that will be quite alright. I’m sorry I never caught you name earlier.’
‘Sheila, Madam’
‘And the butler?’
‘Patrick, Madam’
‘Are there more staff, or do you both do everything?’
‘Oh no, madam. There’s the housekeeper, Mrs Ball, and Miss Nicholson the cook, they both live in, and we have a cleaner who comes in from the village every morning, and of course there is the outdoor staff. We have a couple of gardeners and Gary the apprentice.’
‘They obviously work very hard to keep on top of things; the gardens are in good order.’
‘Thankyou Madam, they will be pleased to hear your appreciation. Will there be anything else Madam? Sir?’
‘No thank you Sheila, that will be all for now. Oh, hang on, what time is dinner?’
‘Drinks will be served in the Library from 7.15 and dinner will be at eight, madam.  Would you like me to draw either of you a bath?’
‘No, that’s fine we will look after ourselves. Does her ladyship usually insist on formal dress for dinner?’
‘No, madam.’
‘Thankyou. Never sure what to wear on these occasions.’
Sheila nodded and went back inside. 
Cynthia realised she and Richard were now the only ones in the garden and time was getting on. 
‘Richard, we need to get ready. Would you like to use the bathroom first, or shall I, that’s of course if the others are not already in there.’
‘That’s fine. I will just wash and shave, so you go ahead.’
They finished their tea, deposited the tray on one of the tables on the terrace and went up to their room. 
Cynthia collected her wash bag from her case, took a towel from the cupboard and made her way to the bathroom. Getting no response to her polite knock on the door she entered and took in the amazing sight of a deep freestanding bath complete with highly polished golden taps with an independent shower head resting in a cradle over the top. She was going to enjoy this.























