
CHAPTER 2
Drinks and canapes were already being served by the time Cynthia and Richard arrived at the library. 
‘You probably all saw him this afternoon, but may I formally introduce my husband Richard,’ Cynthia said to the group.
He acknowledged the murmurings of welcome and then took a large glass of gin and tonic being offered by Patrick. Cynthia did likewise. The small talk took the same line as lunchtime, although now most of it was directed to her husband, which made Cynthia a little less fraught. She still could not decide on who her mysterious contact might be and why the communication from Amy had to be secret. She had shown the note to Richard who was as equally intrigued by the whole situation but didn’t comment.
Dinner comprised of an excellent consommé, followed by roast lamb with sprigs of rosemary and a very sharp-tasting summer pudding. The accompanying wines, a 1925 Dr Burklin-Wolf Forster Kirchenstuck Reisling, a 1920 Chateau Latour Bordeaux and a 1930 Straveecchio Siciliano Reserve, and a 1920 Cossart Gordon Madeira with the cheese, all added to the occasion. Cynthia was not sure whether this was what Amy and Horace drank all the time, or they were just showing off. Even with her own financial resources these would be wines which would rarely, if ever, be seen on her table.  
The whole meal was a pleasant and very informal experience until the introduction of spirits and cigars. Against all conventions, the ladies remained in the room, although as things worked out it soon became apparent that Amy wished she had invited them to the drawing room for liqueurs. As Horace was in London, she had nobody to support her, so the conversation, led by Colonel Snowden, was allowed to take its own course without any restrictions. 
‘Were you in the last lot Harrington?’ ask the Colonel.
Cynthia was always fascinated by the use of surnames at these events, probably something to do with a public-school education.
‘Yes. I was a young medic.’
‘Not one of those conchie fellows who carried the stretchers were you?’ the Colonel retorted with a throaty laugh.
‘No. A doctor actually. Saw too much suffering so have not practiced since the war. Incidentally, those ‘conchie fellows’ you mention were very brave men. I would not have liked to have gone out into no-man’s land collecting the wounded unarmed.’ 
‘Aah,’ the colonel said, rather apologetically, ‘good point, quite so. What about you Newton?’
There was a slight pause as if Newton was afraid of giving something away. 
‘Yes. RFC then RAF.’
‘A flyboy. One advantage of being up there is that you don’t get your boots dirty.’ 
If the statement was meant as a joke, it fell very flat and there was no response from around the table.
‘Before you ask me Colonel, I did get my boots dirty. Arrived in 1917 just in time for Passchendaele. Royal Berkshires.’ Richard said. 
‘Aah, the biscuit boys. Fine regiment…’
Jane interjected, ‘I notice Colonel that you haven’t asked the ladies what we did. Don’t you think we had a part to play? Apart from Amy and Cynthia who are too young, the rest of us are of an age when the war had a significant influence on our lives, one way or another.’ From the tone of her voice it was obvious that she was getting rather annoyed with the Colonel’s assumptions. ‘I was a nurse, more precisely a VAD, alongside Miss Gilchrist here. So, we both saw plenty of action.’
‘I do apologise, dear lady. I have obviously wrongly assumed that because of your background you had spent the time raising money for bandages at village fetes and such like.’  His comments were now veering towards the offensive, mainly due to the large amount of wine and whisky he had consumed, and for a short while an awkward silence fell on the gathering. That was until the Colonel, now supported by Harrington, started again by extolling the virtues of Herr Hitler and his politics.
‘Mark my words,’ said Harrington’ that man will go a long way. He is turning Germany around. Wouldn’t surprise me if he became President or Chancellor soon. Hindenburg can’t go on for ever!’
For the first time Louise spoke. ‘We could do with someone like him in England to sort things out.  Mosley for instance. This National Government is not doing much for the country, and I would not class MacDonald as an inspiring leader.’ At this she looked rather embarrassed for having interrupted and said very little else of note.

As hostess, Amy tried desperately to bring the conversation away from politics, but the group had fragmented into two factions, one interested in taking the discussion further, and the other showing disdain but nonetheless being very polite. Harrington and the Colonel then left, replenished drinks in hand, to play billiards, and after politely declining Amy’s invitation to play cards the ladies and Newton retired for the night. 
‘Richard, do you fancy a stroll on the terrace? We can take a drink with us.’
‘No thanks. It’s been a long day. You stay if you like.’
He gave her a cursory peck on the cheek and walked towards the stairs.

Cynthia topped up her wine and went out of the French doors onto the terrace. It was still warm so rather than walk, she sat on one of the benches and took stock.  One pompous army Colonel, one medic apparently affected by his experiences, two pro-Nazi wives, one very quiet, and reserved pilot and two VADs seemingly not interested in politics. Who out of this group then was her contact?
















