
CHAPTER 3
Breakfast was buffet style. If the Colonel and Harrington were nursing hangovers, which by rights they should be, there was no outward sign. Cynthia helped herself to 
sausages, bacon and tomatoes while Richard had the kedgeree. Sheila served coffee and tea at the table.
‘It’s a lovely day again,’ said Amy. ‘Please feel free to make use of all the facilities. We don’t have a swimming pool I’m afraid, the house is too old and anyway it is usually too cold to need one outdoors, but we do have a trout lake if any of you want to go fly-fishing. The rods are kept in one of the cupboards by the door. Patrick will show you.  You know where the tennis racquets and croquet mallets are. And, if you ride, I can easily arrange for the local stables to provide some horses. Just let me know. We can have coffee at around 11.00 and then a simple lunch at around 1. But don’t worry if you miss either…just enjoy yourselves and relax.’
‘What would you like to do Richard?’ whispered Cynthia.
‘I wouldn’t mind fishing, not done it for some time, but I expect I’ll have to put up with the Colonel. He seems like the hunting and fishing type. But I suppose the lake will be big enough to give me some space.’
Before he could say anymore the Colonel tapped him on the shoulder. ‘Fancy a bit of fishing old man? Harrington and I thought we would give it a try. Catch our lunch…what do you say?’
Richard gave Cynthia a wry smile. ‘Excellent idea Colonel. Need to change into something more suitable first, so see you in the lobby in thirty minutes. To save time perhaps you could sort out some equipment for me. I’m sure Patrick will help.’
As the Colonel went off to badger Harrington, Richard looked at Cynthia. 
‘What will you do?’
‘I don’t fancy tennis or croquet, and frankly I don’t want to get tied up with the others. I’d really like to fish as well, but I am not sure I would be very welcome, so I think I’ll explore the grounds and look at the gardens. Always useful to get some ideas for ours.’ She said that knowing that Richard had no interest in their garden whatsoever. As long as the lawn was neat and tidy, that was all that mattered to him.
‘OK, see you later then. Enjoy your morning.’
Cynthia poured herself another cup of coffee and walked out onto the edge of the lawn. 
After a couple of minutes of contemplating the peace and quiet she went back indoors to change into more suitable shoes and pick up a notepad to jot down the names of any new plants she liked. When she returned the other ladies were outside as well. Louise was knitting, Marjorie and Jane were reading, and Miss Gilchrist sat on the low wall seemingly sketching the front of the house. There was no sign of Mr Newton. 
Cynthia was as good as her word. She spent a relaxed morning just walking across the extensive lawns and admiring the plants in the well-manicured flower beds. Lots of Rosamunde roses and sweet peas, swathes of orange marigolds, ‘Love in the Mist’ filling the gaps and tall blue delphiniums standing imperious behind them all. 
She found a secluded arbour and sat to listen to the sounds of the bees, watch the numerous butterflies and take in the various fragrances…but not for long as her meditation was interrupted. 

‘Lady Cynthia…what a lovely morning. Sorry to disturb the peace and quiet, but may we sit with you?’
Cynthia tilted her head into the sun to find the silhouettes of Miss Gilchrist and Mr Newton looking down on her.
‘Please forgive the intrusion but we would like a quiet word, and this seems like the ideal time and location.’ 
Although Cynthia was expecting some sort of covert meeting, she would not have considered these two to be the ones to contact her. Her incredulity must have been apparent as before she could say anything Newton spoke. 
‘Let me give you some background. My name is not Newton, and although I was a pilot in the RFC, I was badly shot up over the Somme and sent back home for treatment and convalescence. I lied last night about my involvement with the RAF because by the time that was formed in April 1918 I had been seconded to an entirely different job. My real name is Wing-Commander William Lawrie. Bill to my friends.’ 
‘And I am not Gilchrist, and I was certainly not a VAD, neither was Jane, but that’s her real name by the way. Mine is Hannah Park.  We were actually Section Controllers in the WAACs until they disbanded us 1921 and we were offered another job with Bill. Jane and I are here this weekend as walk on parts so to speak. Think of us as a little bit of window dressing if you like.  My clothes last night were a deliberate ploy to shock the ladies. Did you notice they did not talk to me all evening? They probably thought I have lesbian tendencies, which of course is what I wanted to portray. Amy is well aware of who we really are and why we wanted to meet you and I am sorry to have deceived you. Your husband also knows, although as yet, he does not appreciate why. We will be talking to him later.’
‘But what has all this to do with me?’ asked Cynthia.
‘You come highly recommended from mutual contacts, namely Horace, and you have all the attributes that we need, namely well educated, an accomplished linguist, an unconventional aristocrat not tied to protocols and the innate ability to mix in high circles, even though, as you have demonstrated this weekend, you don’t necessarily enjoy it.’
Bill looked at her seriously. ‘Lady Cynthia, in short, we would like you to take part in something concerning the security of the country. I can assure you that you will never be in any danger, but your role will be highly significant. This really is not the place to discuss anything in detail. What we would like you to do is think it over and then we will arrange a meeting in London. We will not be offended if you say no, but we sincerely hope that you’ll join us. In the meantime, we would simply like you to listen and observe while your here. Another pair of eyes and ears are always useful.’
With that, they both got up and walked away as if they had simply been discussing the flowers and the view.
Cynthia was totally taken aback, and kept asking the question…why her? 












