
CHAPTER 4
Her mind was racing too much to just sit so she walked around to the lake to watch the men fishing and to catch up with Richard. Harrington and Snowden were mid-stream in waders, but fortunately he had made the decision to fish from the bank, so they were able to talk.
‘How has your morning been?’ he asked.
‘Why did you not tell me that you knew I was being set up for something?’
‘I couldn’t. One of the reasons I was late arriving yesterday was because a couple of guys from MI5 came to the bank yesterday lunchtime asking me about our business dealings in Germany. I spent about half-an hour with them talking about various things which seemed to placate them, and then they left. They did say it was all off the record and I was not to discuss our meeting with anyone…not even you. They simply said they might contact you to clarify what I’d said, which thinking about it was a little odd. Why? What’s happened?’
‘We are being watched. Carry on fishing and make out we are having a normal conversation.’
Richard deliberately took a long time attaching a fly to the line, while he listened to Cynthia’s explanation of her earlier meeting.
‘So, I have to decide whether or not I want to be a part of this…not knowing what ‘this’ is…and let them know as soon as possible. However, they did just ask me to listen and observe but I really have no idea what they mean by that? Smile, we are being looked at again. We’ll talk about this later.’
She gave a token wave to Harrington and Snowden, turned, and walked back towards the house. 
The rest of the day passed very much like the previous one. There was a cold buffet for lunch, although only the women and Bill were there as the others remained at the lake, then a restful afternoon and then dinner in the evening. 

For some reason the Colonel had decided to dress for dinner, black tie, dinner jacket, crisp white shirt with winged collar and a purple cummerbund. Marjorie was also dressed for the occasion. Almost everybody else was dressed smart, but casual, so the Snowden’s had either got the dress code wrong, or they were making a point that this was what everyone was supposed to do on these occasions. The result was that he in particular looked more pompous than usual. They also arrived later than the others so were able to ‘make an entrance.’  The other exception was Miss Gilchrist, Hannah. She was wearing almost an identical set of clothes to Snowden, a very sleek black trouser suit with matching waistcoat. She was even sporting a half-hunter watch on an ‘albert’ to complete the ensemble. The monocle was back in place and her cigarette was now in a long holder held between her index finger and thumb.  She sat on the couch with one arm stretched out behind Janes’ shoulder. 
The beef at dinner was excellent and the selection of wines as impeccable as the night before; the 1920 Mirafiore’s Barbaresco was particularly good and the Cossart Madeira 1920 was great with the cheeses. Unlike the previous evening the only chat around the table was generally small talk, and nothing at all contentious. In fact, Cynthia considered it quite a pleasant experience. Although this was soon to change.
After dinner there was a distinct division of the group. At Amy’s suggestion, and after the previous evening’s experience, the ladies decided to take their drinks to the drawing room and leave the men to their discussion and their billiards. 
‘Have you ever been to Germany Miss Gilchrist?’ asked Marjorie, ‘I’m not too sure they would be very tolerant of your obvious lifestyle.’ Her tone of voice suggested that she had taken great delight in being deliberately critical. 
‘Yes, I have. I had a few great months in Berlin and despite what you think the clubs were full of independent spirits like me. They were very hedonistic times. Have you not heard of Magnus Hirschfeld who set up the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee in Germany? If not, you should read some of his work, it may enlighten and educate you.  However, I agree that with the present political situation in Germany, those days, and his views, may be lost to history. Have you been there?’
‘Yes, quite recently actually. Peter and I were guests at a party similar to this. Some of his military friends invited us. Like us and our views on the National Government, they feel there is a need for strong leadership to bring some order back into the country.  They are fed up with still having to take the blame for the last war and they want to get Germany back to its rightful place in the world. They were convinced that Hitler is the man to do it. He is very popular.’
Listening to the conversation, Cynthia realised it was obviously the ‘drink’ talking but she was intrigued and found it interesting that there had almost been a role reversal. Last night it had been the Colonel who had expounded his political views, tonight it was his wife. 
Marjorie turned her attention to her. 
‘I presume you’ve travelled Lady Cynthia. Have you been to Europe?’
‘Oh yes of course. Spent some time in Paris and also in Heidelberg. I was abroad long enough to speak to the locals, but not that well.’  she said, deliberately underplaying her knowledge of both countries and her fluency in their languages. ‘I love the countries and the culture but have no interest at all in the politics. I never have. Anything for an easy life is my motto.’ 
‘Ah,’ Marjorie replied. ‘That’s the problem with your generation. You are often too laissez-faire and permissive. You need to have a better understanding of what is going on in the world. Despite what you say you cannot ignore the political climate. Too much is being talked about socialism and peoples’ rights. Tight structure and control are what we need. Don’t you agree Louise?’
‘Couldn’t agree more. As I said last night, we would do well to listen to Mosley, although didn’t he start off as a Conservative and then became a Socialist.  I know he started the New Party last year, but I am not sure how long it will last as most of his colleagues like Baldwin and Strachey have resigned already. He does have some interesting opinions on how to deal with unemployment, but I have to say what does concern me is this ‘Biff Boy’ militia that he’s set up. Not sure what it will lead to, but something needs to happen. Bob and I keep saying that we should go abroad and see what other countries are doing, but his nerves are not really up to it, so we are quite happy to stay at home. That’s not to say that we don’t keep up with what’s going on. Although I am not sure that the papers or the radio are always giving us the real story.’ 

At this point Richard came into the room and walked across to Cynthia. ‘Excuse me interrupting ladies,’ and looking towards his wife ‘I’m going up to bed, unless you want to bring your drink and we take a stroll around the grounds.’
‘What a great idea, I will go and get my coat. Any of you ladies like to join us? Only Jane accepted the invitation. 
‘Wait here while I get a wrap.’
‘In that case I will retire’ said Miss Gilchrist, politely nodding to the others as she left. 
‘I think that’s a good idea,’ said Marjorie ‘What about you Louise, Amy? Are you staying up with the men or going to bed?’ Amy, who had said nothing all evening, was almost asleep already, so took little persuading.
‘No, I’ll do the same. Goodnight everybody, see you at breakfast’ and followed Louise and Marjorie to the stairs.
Richard and Cynthia went out of the French doors onto the terrace and were soon joined by Jane.
‘Well, that was an interesting evening,’ said Richard.
‘Not here’ said Jane pointing to the open windows above. ’Let’s go down to the Lake and just in case we are being watched act relaxed’…and then proceeded to giggle loudly. Out of sight and earshot, she became more serious. ‘How was your evening Richard?’ she asked.
‘The only topic of conversation was the state of the country and politics in general. That is with the exception of Bill who just sat with his brandy while reading a book. They certainly have some strong views and the name dropping was amazing…Mosley, Brown, Nicholson for starters. They both seem to be well in with that crowd.’
‘We had the same’ said Jane, ‘I do wonder why they are all here. Amy does not appear to hold the same views, they do not know our real identities, so perhaps they are here to recruit you to their circle. But how did they know you would be here?  I think they would need more evidence of your interest before asking you to sign up, so to speak.  But don’t worry, we will provide that for them,’ she added with a smile.  
As the temperature was dropping, they decided to return to the house, placed their now empty glasses on the sideboard and went upstairs. 
‘Goodnight to you both,’ whispered Jane.








