
CHAPTER 5
‘Good morning,’ said Amy as she entered the dining room. ‘I hope everybody slept well. It’s going to be a lovely day again. I know that most of you are leaving after lunch, but if you are interested, I will be going to Morning Service at 11.00 in the village if anyone would like to join me.
The Harringtons and Snowdens declined, but Cynthia, although not a regular church goer, agreed to go.
‘I’ll come with you Amy. We’ve not had much chance for a natter, you’ve seemed to have been so busy. What time shall we leave?’
‘We’ll walk down, so how about 10.30? It’s not very far.’
Later, while the others went off to organise their own entertainment, including Jane and Hannah who had arrived late for breakfast, Amy and Cynthia, now joined by Richard and Bill set off for Church. 
Outside the gates at the end of the drive Amy slowed her pace and looked at Cynthia. 
‘This is another one of those clandestine moments I’m afraid. We needed to get out of the house. I knew the others would not accept my invitation, so I’m glad you did. I know Bill wants a word with you, so if Richard doesn’t mind, he’ll come to church with me, so we have something in common to talk about when we return, while you two find somewhere else to have a chat. The pub doesn’t open until 12 so you can’t go there, but there are a couple of benches in the churchyard. You shouldn’t be disturbed.’
‘Good idea,’ said Bill, ‘At least we will all be going in the same direction should anyone be watching. Although I doubt if they will. How long is the service?’
‘No Communion today, so should be over in 45 minutes. Does that give you enough time?’
‘Yes, plenty. Richard, either I or Hannah will find time to talk to you after lunch, perhaps when the others have left. Your role will be slightly different to Cynthia’s, that is if you both accept our offer.’ 
St Andrew’s was a typical flint-faced English Parish Church, with a tall tower housing redundant bells as there were no bell-ringers except itinerant ones collecting towers. It was now much too big for the population, but nonetheless still serving the needs of a community that had changed a great deal since it was first built. While Amy and Richard entered through an old lych gate and walked along the path to the Church porch, Bill and Cynthia diverted around the back into the churchyard and sat on a rather damp wooden seat.
‘Well, have you had time to think about what we discussed yesterday?’ asked Bill
‘To be honest, I am very intrigued, but I would like to know what I am getting in to before I fully commit. Are you able to tell me more, or are you restricted by secrecy?’
‘That’s fair enough. I can tell you the basic outline, but the full details will have to come later. As I said yesterday, Amy is in on this at a number of levels. First, we asked her to arrange this house party and we gave her a list of those we wanted her to invite. She already knew them, but not that well. It is a shame that the Davies’ are not here, but we can deal with them some other time. Second, as you know, Horace is in the Foreign Office, well he is a little more than that, he works with us and in fact you could say that in some ways he’s my boss. When we were planning our little venture and looking for someone to work for us on the inside Amy immediately thought of you. Hence you’re being here.’
‘OK, that explains the invitation out of the blue after so many years, but not what you actually want me to do.’
‘Basically, we would like you to infiltrate the circle of friends that the Harringtons and Snowdens mix with. They are regulars at a number of house parties around the country and we want someone, such as yourself, to get involved with them and report back to us. 
Now, in order to do this properly, we need to provide you with some political provenance. Quite rightly, you have been very non-committal about your opinions this weekend, and by the way I have to commend you on being very restrained, Snowden can be very arrogant and rude at times, incidentally, he was only a Major…but Colonel gives him a little more kudos. Horace is going to arrange for you to accompany Richard on an extended business trip to Germany where you will get to meet some of the clique surrounding Hitler. We don’t want you to spy for us, as such, we just need you to blend in as Richard’s wife and perhaps give the impression that you agree with their views. We are hoping that when you return you will be invited to join like-minded groups in this country. As you have already gathered from the conversations over dinner, their views and opinions are very right wing.
Despite what people think, we are still concerned that there could be diplomatic problems in the near future, and we need to know the people working against us internally. If, god forbid, there was another war, we would need to know who they are, if you understand my meaning.’
Well, that’s all I can tell you now. What do you think? As I said Richard will be told about all this later.’
‘Well,’ replied Cynthia somewhat hesitantly, ‘I’m amazed that you have picked me for this. It sounds like quite an adventure…so count me in. However, although exciting, there is no danger attached to this is there?’
‘No, there shouldn’t be, but can’t guarantee it,’ he paused, ‘It sounds as though the service has finished. If you then agree to join us, I need to make a call from the box by the pub before we go back to the house, so if you will excuse me for a couple of minutes, I’ll catch you up.’
They both strolled to the front porch and while Cynthia waited for Amy and Richard to come out, Bill ran across the road to the phone.
‘Where’s Bill?’ asked Amy
‘Just gone to make a call, we’re to walk on and he’ll catch us up.’ 
They turned out onto the road and ambled back to the house. Bill joined them just in time to regroup at the gate and offered up a packet of cigarettes to which all declined. 
‘Just had a thought,’ he said. ‘It might look a little odd if we stayed behind after the others leave. Would you be able to come to London on Wednesday and we’ll meet in the office? I think it would make more sense.’ He took a business card from his wallet and handed it to Richard.
‘Imperial Aggregates. 35. Cromwell Rd. London,’ said Richard. ‘OK, what time?’
‘Would 11.am be OK?’
‘Fine. We’ll be there’
They continued to walk up the drive and into the house.
‘Good service,’ asked the Colonel, coming down the stairs.
‘The usual,’ replied Amy. ‘Straight out of Common Prayer so can’t go wrong with that, just like reading a script.’
‘Particularly liked the hymns. The choir was so loud I’m surprised the whole village didn’t hear them.’ said Cynthia with a smile.

After lunch, which was a rather muted affair, all the bags were brought into the hallway. The guests gathered to say their farewells with the usual…’pleasure to meet you,’ and ‘may see you again sometime’ before they went outside to wait for their cars. As Richard was the last to arrive his was the first to be collected. His 1930 green MG. M came around the corner faster than it should have done and pulled up in front of him
‘Lovely car, sir,’ said the footman handing over the keys. 
‘Thanks, she is isn’t she.’ Richard was unsure whether is expected to tip on these occasions, but nonetheless palmed half-a crown to the driver.
‘Thank you very much sir,’ he said without opening his hand.
Richard called out, ‘See you at home, Darling,’ and drove off. 
Cynthia’s was the next to be delivered which meant she did not have to wait around and make small talk. She gave Amy a kiss on the cheek, a cursory wave to the group, got into the driver’s seat and followed Richard down the drive, much relieved to be going. A curious weekend she thought to herself.






























