
CHAPTER 6 

The offices of ‘Imperial Aggregates’, 35 Cromwell Rd, turned out to be almost opposite the Natural History Museum, one of Cynthia’s favourite places as a child. She had always been intrigued by the gargoyles in the shape of animal heads and the various relief sculptures of flora and fauna depicted on the exterior walls. 
They went up a short flight of steps to the front door set between two porticoed columns, and rang the bell, the sound of which they could hear echoing around the interior.  The door was opened by a young woman with short black hair, wearing a cardigan over a white blouse and a grey skirt. A functional outfit thought Cynthia.
‘Please come in’, she said politely. ‘You are expected, but would you wait in here until Wing-Commander Laurie can collect you?’
She led them into a small room with a very high, decorated ceiling. From the little they had seen so far; the building had the trappings of once being an elegant Georgian family house which, when built, would have been the outskirts of the city.
‘May I offer you tea of coffee?’
Glancing at Richard, Cynthia replied ‘Coffee would be lovely thank you, neither of us take milk or sugar.’
When she returned carrying a large tray with more cups she was closely followed by Bill Jane and Hannah, the latter out of costume and more soberly dressed.
‘Good morning to you both,’ he said shaking their hands, ‘thought we might all meet in here, rather than my office. Please help yourself to the coffee. Thankyou Felicity, that will be all for now.’ She left, taking the empty tray with her.
‘OK. Let’s get on. I need to say from the outset that the discussion we are about to have is confidential and nothing that is said is to go beyond these four walls. You will notice that nobody is taking notes, neither is Felicity here taking minutes. This is totally between us on a need to know basis. Are you both OK with that?’
‘Absolutely,’ said Richard.
‘Good. You got the gist of it at Denleigh, but we need to explain in some detail the background, and why we need your help. Jane and Hannah will interject when I forget something, which I usually do,’ he said with smile.
‘We mentioned some of this before, but it is worth going over it again to put your role into context. Are we correct in assuming that because you are here this morning, you are interested in helping us out?’
‘We are, but I presume we will have the opportunity to ask questions later,’ asked Cynthia.
‘Of course.’
Bill continued. ‘For some while now we have been very concerned about a specific group of people, mainly from the minor aristocracy and the so-called landed gentry, who have been expressing concerns about the political situation here in Britain. At the same time, they have been voicing their opinions and support for Mussolini’s Fascist regime in Italy, and the rise in popularity of National Socialism in Germany under Hitler. You would have heard some of this at dinner last Friday. Unfortunately, although we know who some of these people are, the Harringtons and Snowdens for instance, there are a lot more we’ve not heard of yet. Simply put, what we want you to do is help us find them? They may only be a group of eccentrics, but we know for certain that some of them are more than that. They seem determined to upset the status quo and force their views on people. Nobody wants another war, but as I said before, we need to know who is working against us. Alright so far?’
‘Yes, carry on’ 
‘Richard, after some of my colleagues came to your office last Friday, we have arranged through Horace to send you and Cynthia on a business trip to Germany on behalf of your bank. The Directors are not aware of the real reason for you going. As far as they are concerned, your bank is simply one of many who have been asked to consider business links with the possible new regime which, from what we have gathered, will soon be in power, either independently, or under some sort of coalition. 
What we would like you both to do is really rather simple, but vitally important.  As well as the usual round of business meetings, as an additional part of the package, shall we say, we will arrange invitations for you to attend various parties and social functions in Berlin where you will come into contact with members and supporters of the new regime. As far as you are concerned Richard, you simply carry on in your usual daily role of being a senior figure in the bank. Your economic knowledge and background, and your business acumen is all you need to draw on. Remember, they will have invited you, so their motive is to create commercial links with the bank.’
Turning to Jane and Hannah. ‘Rather than me do all the talking do either of you want to explain Cynthia’s role.’
Hannah walked across to get another cup of coffee, resumed her seat and looked directly at Cynthia. 
‘Your role is slightly different. As well as playing the archetypal, dutiful wife accompanying her husband on a necessary business trip, we would like you to do two things. First, as we asked you over the weekend, we want you to simply listen and observe. See if any British names are mentioned during social conversations and small talk, and in what context. One thing to remember, it might be useful that all parties are unaware that you are fluent in German, they may be more likely to say things in front of you if they think you don’t understand the language. Make sure you deliberately struggle when trying to converse to maintain the pretence.  
Second, and this may be a little more challenging, we would like you to express some support for National Socialism. This only needs to be subtle so don’t feel you have to shout anything from the rooftops’, she said with a smile. ‘Just a few comments dropped into a conversation will do’.
At this point Jane interjected. ‘That last point is very important. We don’t want you to seem too eager. Through the contacts we have there already, the people you meet will be aware of your title and status, so to some extent they will be trying to impress you and be seeking your support and endorsement, rather than the other way around. You will be in the country for seven days although it might be less. All we ask is that you be patient and see what happens. That’s all you need to do.’
Bill resumed the briefing. ‘At this point you are probably asking yourselves why?’.
Both Cynthia and Richard nodded. 
‘Before you ask us any questions, let me explain what we think might happen.  We are hoping that by providing you with this political provenance, and you demonstrating your interest in the regime, some people in this country might see the benefits of cultivating your friendship. How this will work out we’re not sure. It could make no difference at all, nothing happens, and you merely resume your normal lifestyle, or alternatively, you might find yourselves being invited to various events and social weekends among a new circle of likeminded acquaintances. Those are the people we are looking for. We want you to bring them out of the woodwork. We are playing a long game here. Once you come home, we will monitor the situation carefully and should you become part of this group, or groups, we will provide the necessary contacts for you to relay information back to us. To some extent think of yourselves as ‘sleepers’ working on our behalf... and as Jane said, be patient. Anyway, that is enough from me. Are you still interested, and do you have any questions?’
Cynthia looked at Richard. ‘Yes, we are still interested. Basically, as I see it, you just want us to play ourselves. But can I ask if anyone else will be aware of what we are doing, or do we have to accept the fact that we may be seen by some as being part of a conspiracy’.
‘That’s a good question’, said Hannah. ‘There is some risk of course that your new affiliations may be noticed by your friends, but we are confident that you have the necessary skills to deflect their concerns while at the same time maintaining your roles. 
‘By the way’, said Bill, ‘it is very unlikely that you will meet anybody at these events that you recognise. However, if you do, just react normally. We will also have some people working for us who will be looking out for you. Don’t try to guess who they are because there is no point in trying, you won’t spot them. However, if they ever have a need to approach you just remember my rank’. He tapped the side of his nose.
‘I supposed the important thing to know is when do we leave?’ asked Richard with a nervous laugh.
‘OK, now you’re in agreement we will arrange the invitations from our contacts in Germany, via your bank Richard to make it all official. Once we have the dates Felicity will sort out your travel and your accommodation. We will fly you to Berlin, you could drive and use the trip as a holiday break, but it would take more time and we want this up and running as soon as possible. This may take a few weeks to organise, but we will keep you informed. I presume we can phone you at home using the cover of Imperial Aggregates.’
‘That’s fine. I presume you have our number,’ said Cynthia
‘Oh yes’, said Jane with a wry smile. ‘We know everything about you!’






