
CHAPTER 7
The call came three weeks later.
‘Lady Cynthia? This is Felicity from Imperial Aggregates. I apologise for the delay, but we have now arranged all your hotel accommodation and your flights. The delay has been in organising the various meetings and social events. Conveniently, the latter will take place in the hotel in which you’re staying, although once you attend the first couple, others might follow. Am I correct in assuming that you hold valid passports?’
‘Yes, I checked as soon as we returned from the last meeting. Mine was issued in 1926 and still has Ireland, rather than Northern Ireland on the cover but I presume that is OK?’ 
‘Perfectly alright. You will be flying from Croydon with Deutsche Luft Hansa next Monday. I hope that will be convenient. Your return flights are booked for the week after, but we can change those if needs be. The Directors of your husband’s bank have been notified and they will be collecting together various documents and questions to support Richard’s work over there. All your travel documents will be delivered by a courier in the next couple of days and relevant letters of introduction, should you need them, will be sent to your husband via the bank. To make things easier for you we will have a car take you to the airport and there will be one waiting for you on your return.’
I think that is all. Do you have any immediate questions?’
‘No, I don’t think so? All fairly self-explanatory’.
‘Well, in that case have a pleasant trip. We have people there who will monitor your visit and we will get in touch once you get back home. Bon voyage.’

Early the next day, a motor-cycle courier arrived, withdrew a large envelope from the satchel he was wearing over his shoulder and handed it to Cynthia. She signed for the package, and after declining the offer of a drink, he returned to his 350cc Triumph Sport and rode back to London.  
Now that they were really going, Cynthia decided that she needed to enhance her evening wear, but rather than travel into London she got her car and drove to Northbrook Street in Newbury to the ladieswear department at the family-owned shop of Camp Hopson. An excuse to splash out she thought.

The following Monday, Cynthia and Richard were driven by an official looking black Daimler, to Croydon Airport situated on Purley Way to the south of London. It was still fairly new, as the terminal, the first one of its kind, had only been opened four years previously in 1928. Not only was it the first airport to have an air-traffic control centre, monitoring aircraft landing and taking off, it also boasted the world’s only airport hotel on-site. 
They walked through the multi-paned glass doors into a large room fitted out with wooden benches and desks more befitting to a library than a departure area. The brown furniture made the whole place rather sombre, a complete contrast to the gleaming white walls of the exterior but there were plenty of windows to let in the light.  It had two storeys and the upper floor, surrounded by a gallery, was supported by a number of tall plain white columns. In the centre of the floor was a tall hexagonal obelisk type structure on a wooden plinth. On each side there were two banks of clocks showing the times in the various countries that Imperial Airways, the main airline based at the airport, flew to. Along one side of the room were two desks, both manned by an official in a grey suit. 
 ‘Good morning Sir, Madam. May I see you tickets and passports please?’ 
They handed over the wallet they had been given by the office.
‘Have you flown with us before?’ he asked very politely.
‘No, in fact this is our first ever flight.’
‘Lovely. In that case, just a couple of things that you might not be aware of. We always advise passengers not to use the facilities on the aircraft unless absolutely necessary as the planes can be affected by turbulence. As this flight is just over two hours long, we suggest that you take advantage of lavatories here before your departure. You can find them on the other side of the building, through the archway to your right. Also, you may find it cold on the flight, so please take one of the blankets as you go out and leave it with the attendant when you land.’
He replaced their tickets in the wallet and handed it back with the passports. ‘Have an enjoyable trip.’
Although neither Cynthia nor Richard had ever flown before, they had been told by friends about the potential hazards. What the official did not say was that because the planes could lose height very suddenly, sick bowls were strategically placed under each seat; and the noise, especially at take-off was so loud that passengers could be permanently deafened. 
While Richard went to the Gents, Cynthia looked at some of the photos around the room recording specific events. She was unaware that the airport had so much history. There was one of Charles Lindberg taken in 1927 when he arrived from the United States in the Spirit of St Louis, and one of Amy Johnson just before she took off for her flight to Australia in 1930.
In another frame was a written description describing the introduction of the word Mayday as a distress signal. According to the text it had been the idea of a senior radio officer at Croydon, Frederick Mockford, and had nothing to with May 1st and maypole dancing, but was a derivation of the French word ‘m’aider’ meaning ‘help me’.
How amazing she thought, not only a first time in an aeroplane, but a history lesson as well. She strolled across to the book stall and flicked through a couple of magazines. Richard returned and they sat down on a nearby bench, which was functional but very uncomfortable, thought Cynthia, and waited to be called for their flight. 
After about ten minutes, which seemed a lot longer, all the passengers, about twenty-five of them were ‘invited’ to leave the building by another set of double doors at the back, where they were met by a flight attendant, one of the seven crew accompanying them on their journey. Collecting blankets on the way, they walked out to see the aircraft for the first time. It was a four-engine Junkers G38, the largest land-based passenger aeroplane in the world.  It was awesome. Richard estimated that it was about a quarter the size of a rugby pitch in length, almost half the size in width and about the height of a two-storey house. The wings themselves had been deliberately designed deep to house passenger cabins where those travellers who could afford it, could see the journey through forward facing windscreens built into the wing edges, rather than a side view in the main fuselage. It had an odd box-shaped tail plane.
They went up the steps and entered what could only be described as a very narrow corridor divided into three sections containing single seats on both sides. Strangely, considering the lack of space, there was a small lounge area at the back, next to the toilet. 
When they were all seated a different steward lifted a megaphone to his mouth and started to describe the flight. The engines were so loud, that it was impossible to hear anything being said in a normal voice.
‘Good morning Ladies and Gentlemen and welcome to this Deutsche Luft Hansa flight from London to Berlin which will take approximately two and a half hours. Once we get in the air, we will be cruising at a speed of 110 miles an hour at a height of 12000 feet. I notice that many of you have a blanket so please use them if you get cold. We have been in service for a year, so we should have sorted out all the problems by now,’ he joked. ‘After we have taken off, we will be serving you refreshments. If you have any questions or concerns, please raise your hand and I will do my best to answer them. Thankyou.’
With that he sat down in his seat while the plane slowly turned at the end of the runway. The noise and vibration at take-off were difficult to describe and both Richard and Cynthia felt apprehensive about the flight, thinking it might have been wiser to have journeyed by car instead. 











