
CHAPTER 8
The Junkers landed at Tempelhof airport in Berlin just over two hours later. They left their blankets on the seats and walked along the cabin and down the steps. Cynthia had never felt so relieved as she did when putting her feet on firm ground.
The 580-mile trip could not be described as being an enjoyable one. The persistent buffeting made it very uncomfortable, and on a couple of occasions Cynthia felt the need for the bowl under the seat, but fortunately did not have to resort to it. Trying to drink coffee was farcical, but both of them had great respect for the stewards who were serving it under often difficult circumstances. Richard thought that as well as the bowl, the airline should also issue bibs to all passengers to stop the tea and coffee getting on their clothes. One thing that worried them was that they would have to go through it all again when returning to London.
They followed the line of other passengers into the terminal building to have their passports checked and collect their luggage which had been left on a rack at the entrance. The room was not unlike the one at Croydon, with lots of wooden panelling making it dark and austere. The official made a cursory comparison between their passport photographs and their faces, stamped the documents, put a chalk mark on their cases, wished them a pleasant stay and pointed them in the direction of the exit. That was it, all over in 30 mins. 
They ignored the signs to the Underground Railway, Tempelhof had been the first airport to have one, because a car had been arranged to pick them up. They were met at the door by a short man dressed in a chauffeur’s uniform. 
‘Guten Morgen Dame und Gentleman. Willkommen in Berlin‘ 
‘Danke‘, said Richard, then remembering not to give her knowledge of the language away, Cynthia asked. ‘Sprechen Sie Englisch, unser Deutsch ist nicht sehr gut.‘ 
‘Ein bisschen. Ich werde es versuchen, aber verzeihen Sie meine Fehler. Sorry… a little. I will try, but please forgive my mistakes. Please get in the car.’
He opened the rear doors of an impressive white Mercedes, with the roof down, while a porter from the airport placed their luggage in the boot.  
The ride through the city brought back memories of the time Cynthia had spent here in the 20s. She made a mental note not to mention that she had been in Berlin before, it was supposed to be their first visit.
The car pulled up in front of the Hotel Adlon on Wilhelmstrasse. It was named after Lorenz Adlon, a successful wine merchant from Mainz, who had persuaded the Kaiser in 1905 to let him build a luxury hotel, it opened two years later. Situated in the heart of the government quarter the British Embassy was next door, the American Embassy around the corner and the French directly opposite on Pariser Platz, and only a short distance away from the Reich Chancellery and the Brandenberg Gate. 
‘Wow’, thought Cynthia, ‘they really do want us to make an impression if they have got us a room here. We are certainly not meant to keep a low profile.’ 
She got out of the car, while Richard tipped the driver. 
‘Danke, Herr‘.
He took Richard to one side, away from the doorman standing on the steps and whispered, ‘I will be your driver for the duration of your stay. The hotel will be able to contact me, but I have written my number on this piece of paper should you need me unofficially. I have been told that your business meetings will be held at the Reichsbank on Jagerstrasse, and most of the social events will be held here at the hotel.  However, your wife can use me for seeing the sights if she likes.’ 
He smiled, ‘you will notice that my English has improved…the conversation at the airport was simply by-play. I am in fact employed by the embassy.’ He acknowledged the building next door to the hotel. ‘Whenever we meet officially, I will speak German first to keep up the pretence. Is there anything else I can do for you now?’
‘No. That’s absolutely fine thanks. Oh, do you have a list of the meetings?’ I’ve not got them yet.’
‘You will find them in a folder in your room sir. First one is tomorrow morning at 11.00. I will be here but will have you paged to make it look formal.’ As he returned to the car, he called 
‘Guten Tag’ rather loudly over his shoulder. 

A liveried footman came down a couple of steps to collect their cases. He led them under the canopy that extended to the edge of the pavement, through the doorway, opened by the doorman, into a stunning lobby with huge square marble columns. It was all in stark contrast to the somewhat austere exterior and a great example of the Neo-Baroque style common in the late 19th century and one which the architects, Carl Gause and Robert Leibnitz, would have been familiar with.  
The reception area was ahead of them in the central space between two of the columns. To the right was a wide semi-circular staircase which swept up to the gallery on the next floor. Behind the open-plan desk was a seating area containing magnificent button-backed armchairs and couches covered in a deep green and grey fabric. They were arranged around an internal Japanese themed garden in the middle of which stood a tall water fountain with large bronze water-lily petals at the top and a circle of elephants, half-way down the column. 
They walked across a large red carpet to Reception where they were greeted by a man formally dressed in black jacket, pin-striped trousers and a winged collar.
‘Guten Morgen. Willkommen im Hotel Adlon, Haben Sie eine Reservierung?‘
Seeing Cynthia’s puzzled look, he said. ‘Would you prefer that I spoke in English, or French?’
‘English would be lovely as our German is almost non-existent. Sorry to say that we only know the basics I’m afraid, bier, wein, wo ist das Badezimmer? To answer to your question, yes, we do have a reservation in the name of Lady Cynthia and Mr Richard Childreth.’
‘The language is not a problem madam. May I see your passports please?’
Richard handed them over for scrutiny.
‘Would you like to keep them, or would you prefer that I put them in the safe? During these present times I would suggest the latter, as you would not want to have them stolen.’
‘Do we have a safe in our room?’ Richard asked.
‘Yes Sir’.
‘In that case I think we would prefer to keep them.’
‘As you wish. Here are your keys, room 204. The porter has already taken your luggage to you room. The lifts are over there in the corner, but if you would like a drink you can order a coffee from the lounge here or go into the bar. The list of facilities we have to enhance your visit will be in your desk. I wish you a pleasant stay.’
‘May I commend you on your English,’ said Cynthia, ‘It’s impeccable.’
‘Thank you, Madam,’ with a slight nod, ‘I was in fact educated in England for a time before attending the Sorbonne where I learnt my French. Have a good day.’
He then turned his attention to another couple with whom he proceeded to converse in perfect French.
They walked towards the Japanese garden, ‘Shall we go to our room, or would you like a drink first?’
Cynthia thought for a moment. ‘I could actually do with a drink after that journey, so shall we explore the bar. I want something stronger than a coffee.’
They walked into another elaborately decorated area. The bar itself was on the right of the room and had a shiny brass rail extending a few inches out from it all the way around, which meant that anyone sitting on one the numerous upright stools would not get any residue spillage on their sleeves. The walls were surrounded by mirrors which added to the impression that it was larger than it actually was. Next to it was a seating area with small tables where patrons were ordering from one of a number of white aproned waiters flitting between the chairs.
Cynthia and Richard opted for a stool and a barman immediately came towards them.
‘Was wirst du haben'
Richard managed to work this out…
‘A beer and a red wine, please’.
‘Ah, English. I’m sorry. I will remember next time.’
He returned with the drinks and placed them on the counter on top of thick paper coasters displaying the hotel’s crest, together with a dish containing various snacks. 
‘May I have your room number please?’
‘204,’ replied Cynthia, before clinking glasses with Richard. ‘Cheers, or Prost as they say here.’ 
Cynthia scanned the other guests in the room. They were all of a type, their clothes and demeanour betraying their affluence.  
‘If they are dressed like this for an afternoon drink, what will they be like at dinner,’ she pondered. She also wondered if the dresses she had brought with her were stylish enough. She was wealthy in her own right, but rarely in her life had she flaunted it. 
They sat for a while then decided to explore the ground floor before going up to their room. 
The receptionist had been correct. The hotel had almost everything to cater for the needs of the type of clientele who stayed. As well as the bar, there was a large restaurant for formal meals and a café serving coffee and cakes, one whole wall of which comprised of large French doors which could be unfastened to reveal an open area leading onto a garden.
It also boasted a ladies’ lounge, a library, a music room, a smoking room, a barber’s shop, a cigar shop and even a palm-court.  Cynthia noticed that there did not seem to be a ladies’ hairdresser, which seemed a bit odd considering everything else that was on offer. She would need to ask where the nearest salon was if she wanted to look her best for any social events. 
After ambling for a few minutes down numerous vaulted corridors, they made their way to their room. Instead of using the lift, they went up the staircase. At the top of which they looked over the balustrade and took in the panoramic view of the whole lobby and reception area. It was very impressive. Their room was equally imposing. Comprising of a bedroom, small seating area, an ensuite bathroom which as well as the usual facilities had a double wash basin for some reason which Cynthia couldn’t fathom, and numerous wardrobes. From the two large windows they could see the Brandenberg gate at the end of the Unter den Linden. Their cases had not been unpacked, but instead had been placed on deep shelves near the closet which could be folded back against the wall when not required. 
They found the list of Richard’s appointments and a couple of business cards, along with some general information in the folder as the driver had indicated, and there was a rather ornate card from Gerda and Franz Stammer, from the Reichsbank, inviting them both for drinks the following evening at 7.30 in the hotel library. Dress informal.
They had nothing to do now, except dinner in the restaurant and a good night’s sleep, before the work and the play-acting started tomorrow.









