
CHAPTER 9
After a night’s sleep interspersed with memories of her flight, Cynthia awoke to the sun dappling the curtains. While she showered and dressed, Richard decided to take the opportunity to get his hair cut before his meeting. He would see her in the dining room for breakfast, Cynthia arrived first, to be joined a little later by a neatly trimmed Richard. 
‘What do you think?’ asked Richard stroking his hair.
‘Very Germanic…only joking. Looks fine.’
The waiter came over to their table.
‘Guten Morgen möchten Sie Kaffee oder Tee’.
‘We’ll both have coffee please no milk or sugar thank you’. She berated herself, I must remember not to understand the language. But then thought that Kaffee and Tee was easy to understand even for those with no knowledge of German. 
They perused the menu and when the waiter returned with their drinks, they ordered an omelette and the smoked fish’.
‘What will you do while I’m at the bank?’, Richard asked.
‘I’ll go for a walk. Any idea how long your meeting will last because I can always wait for you if you like. I thought I might get my hair done for this evening, while I’m out. Need to ask reception where they can recommend.’
‘I have no idea, either about timings, or what the meeting is about. Probably best if you do your own thing today and we’ll get together later. 
‘Fine with me.’
After they had finished, Richard went to their room to pick up his briefcase, while Cynthia enquired about a hairdresser.’
‘We recommend one just around the corner Madam, on Pariser Platz. It’s called Forrester’s and most of the stylists will speak English. Would you like me to make a reservation for you?’
‘That would be very kind. Anytime around 10 would be good’.
He picked up the phone and dialled a number from memory. This was obviously a common request.
‘Guten Morgen. Darf ich im Namen von Lady Cynthia Childreth für 10 Uhr reservieren. Sie ist zu Gast im Hotel. Danke vielmals.’
‘All booked for 10, Madam. They are aware that you are staying here, so the cost will be cheaper as we have an arrangement with them. Is there anything else I can do for you?’
‘No, thank you. You have been very helpful…oh, yes there is. Do you have a map of the local area in English?’
He took one out of a rack at the side of the counter and gave it to her.
She nodded, smiled, turned and went back to her room. 
‘I have no idea how formal this is going to be, so not sure what to take with me,’ said Richard. ‘Perhaps just a notepad, and the papers from the folder that the bank gave me in case they’re needed. Quite apprehensive about all this now. Must remember just to be myself.’
‘You’ll be fine. It will simply be an initial meeting of like-minded people. I wouldn’t think any important issues will be discussed until later in the week. Don’t worry. I’d better go now and find the salon. See you back here later. Have fun.’
She gave him a hug and a quick peck on the cheek, gathered her purse, put the map into her jacket pocket and walked out. 
She emerged from the hairdressers an hour later much lighter in the pocket. ‘They might have an arrangement with the hotel, but that was a very expensive haircut,’ she thought. 
She looked at her watch and decided that as Richard would be leaving soon, she would just go for a stroll and not return to the hotel until later. 
She walked back to the Unter den Linden, the main thoroughfare that goes west-east from Paiser Platz, where she was, to the royal palace in the Lustgarten park. Fortunately, not only did her map give her the street layout, it was also a mini-guide book, with various numbered paragraphs describing the relevant sights. The first was the Brandenberg Gate to her left. She referred to the guide.
‘The Brandenburg Gate was built between 1788-91 on the orders of King Frederick William II of Prussia and was originally called the Peace Gate. It was designed by Carl Langhans. It is on the site of the former city gate on the Berlin to Brandenburg road. It is the monumental entry onto the Unter den Linden. On the top of the gate visitors will see the Quadriga, a chariot pulled by four horses and driven by Victoria the Roman goddess of victory. In 1806 after defeating the Prussians at the Battle of Jena, Napoleon used the arch for a triumphal procession and took the Quadriga back to Paris. It was returned in 1814 after the Prussians occupied Paris, and it was adapted. Victoria was given a Prussian eagle and an Iron Cross on her lance and a wreath of oak leaves’.

‘Fascinating,’ thought Cynthia. 
It was obvious from the map that the Unter den Linden was very much part of the story although she realised that the street pre-dated the gate by two hundred years. She read the description.
‘In the 16th Century, the Unter den Linden was a bridle path that allowed the Elector of Brandenberg to access his hunting grounds in the Tiergarten. In 1647 it was replaced by a boulevard of Linden trees. In 1851 the statue of Frederick II of Prussia was erected on the centre strip.’ 
While Cynthia was enjoying being a tourist, Richard had been collected and driven to his meeting at the bank.  
He was met at the door and taken up a flight of stairs to the office of Franz Stammer.
‘Guten Morgen Herr Childreth,’ extending his hand in greeting. ‘I presume you would prefer to conduct our meetings in English, unless of course I am doing you a disservice and you are fluent in German.’ He smiled.
‘On the contrary, Herr Stammer. I have very little knowledge of the language beyond the basics, so English will be better. Thankyou’.
‘We will be joined by a couple of my colleagues in a few minutes. In the meantime, may I offer you refreshments. Oh, before I forget, my wife insisted that I remind you of our get together this evening. We hope you are able to come.’
‘No, to the refreshments, and yes we will be delighted to attend. In fact, tell her we are very much looking forward to it.’
Once the other delegates were introduced, they all sat around the large table to the side of the room. 
‘Let me explain why we invited you Herr Childreth.’
‘Richard, please, less formal.’
‘Thankyou. Well Richard, you will be aware that Germany has been through somewhat of an economic upheaval over the past few years. In simple terms, this bank is the direct result of the Dawes Plan which was introduced in 1924 and to some extent stabilised our economy but it didn’t work because our Government were unable to keep up with the reparation payments imposed at the end of the war. This was replaced by the Young Plan which reduced the country’s payments by 20% over 58 years. But the crash on Wall Street back in 1929 meant that the US withdrew a lot of its money from Europe and recalled many of the outstanding debts. If that wasn’t bad enough, the lack of trade has had a serious effect on our economy and our employment rate is now over 40%.  Although President Hoover waived payments for a year it has had little effect and we are still in crisis. There will be a conference in Lausanne in a couple of weeks where we hope some of the issues will be resolved but, whatever happens, I cannot see a quick solution. I think our Government will again refuse to pay. What we are looking for from your bank, is not only support in applying pressure on your delegates at Lausanne to bring this to some conclusion, but also use your bank’s knowledge and expertise in helping us out of the crisis. We have noticed, that despite being a small bank, you are holding your own against the larger ones, so you must be doing something right. If we don’t act soon, we will be at the mercy of the extremists in our society and to some extent we already are. Frankly, many of us have every sympathy with them. Germany has lived in austerity for too long and it is not of our making.’
The last statement was made rather forcefully Richard thought, as if Herr Stammer had been holding back his emotions during his monologue. His colleagues had said nothing at all.
Richard looked at all three across the table, ‘I am not sure what we can do as a bank to influence the decisions at Lausanne, because that will be in the hands of the Government economists. But I am sure we can share some of our expertise.’ 
‘That is all we ask,’ replied Stammer. He paused, ‘perhaps it might be best now to give you time to think about what we have said and meet again tomorrow. We will of course see you this evening, but it is an informal social gathering, not for business.’
With that he pressed a button on his desk summoning his secretary, rose from the chair and in turn with the others, shook Richard’s hand.
‘Ah, Frau Meiden, werden Sie Herrn Childreth bitte zu seinem Auto begleiten. Es sollte draußen warten.
‘I have asked Frau Meiden to take you to your car. Until this evening then…Guten Tag’.



























