
CHAPTER 10 
Richard arrived back at the hotel and found Cynthia sitting in the reception area with a coffee in front of her and the guide map in her hand. 
‘Didn’t expect to see you here so soon,’ she remarked. ‘How was it?’
‘A little odd. Basically, they would like the bank to support them at the Lausanne conference, which of course is totally beyond our remit as this is Government level, and tap into our expertise. They have been going through a bad time over the past few years and reckon that we have the knowledge to get them out of it. Not sure how we would do that either. All a bit strange. I just had the feeling through the whole meeting, that there was a hidden agenda which I wasn’t seeing, or even privy to. I hardly said anything, just listened to what was really a monologue. The only sensible thing to come out of it was a reminder about the party this evening. Perhaps things will become a clearer over the week. What about you, how was your day? Like the hair by the way, looks good.’
‘It should do, the amount of money it cost me. I just had a stroll. Went to the Gate and then down the Unter den Linden to the Soviet Union embassy and then came back for a coffee. I was just looking at the map to see where to go this afternoon. 
What would you like to do now? We could get the driver to take us somewhere, shops perhaps, or just relax until the reception this evening.’
‘I think I would prefer to stay. We can order afternoon tea a little later as we have missed lunch and then change. Then the fun starts.’ 
They arrived for the party a polite ten minutes late. The library, on the ground floor, had a reasonable collection of books, but it was more of a reading room than a library in the real sense. There were tables with rather ornate lamps and what looked like silver-plate ink stands, plenty of large leather armchairs and a couple of sofas. 
Herr Stammer walked across to greet them. ‘Ah Richard, welcome. May I present my wife Gerda.’ Richard shook hands with a rather dour looking lady who seemed to be a lot older than her husband. Very nice to meet you. This is my wife Cynthia’ 
Gerda nodded, but Franz bowed, took her hand and kissed it very formally. ‘It is a great pleasure to meet you. Let me introduce you to the others. I have told those who can to speak English as I understand your German is not too good.  Don’t worry we will not expect you to remember everybody.’
He took a couple of glasses of sparkling wine from the waiter handed them to his guests and led them both further into room.
‘Meine Damen und Herren. Möge ich Richard und Cynthia Childreth vorstellen. Dies wird das einzige Mal sein, dass ich heute Abend Deutsch spreche. Mit Respekt vor unseren Gästen werden wir auf Englisch konvergieren‘. He smiled 
Cynthia understood what was being said but allowed Franz to explain that he had introduced them, and that they would now all converse in English. 
‘Cynthia, may I present you to a couple of people who Richard met this morning, then the others can introduce themselves.’
At this point Cynthia decided that if she was there to make an impression, she really ought to use her title. It would sound very arrogant and pretentious but needs must.
‘Herr Stammer, may I point out that I am actually Lady Cynthia. I have my own title.’
‘My apologies Lady Cynthia. I was not aware of this.’ He acknowledged deferentially and led them across to a small group.
‘So,’ he said, ‘this is Willa and Andreas Muller, and Heidi and Christian Spranger. They will look after you while I play host for a while. Please excuse me.’
‘Good evening,’ they all voiced in unison and proceeded to chat about nothing in particular. 
Richard and Cynthia were moved around the room from group to group. The small talk was the usual, ‘Where do you live?’ ‘Have you been to Berlin before?’ Nothing at all contentious, except, thought Cynthia, that almost immediately they left one conversation everyone reverted to German…and they were being talked about. She was able to pick up snippets as she walked around. There were comments about her dress, the fact that having a title must mean that she is obviously wealthy, and a couple of suggestions that she should be invited for coffee. So, it came as no surprise when Heidi Spranger came over to her offering such an invitation.
‘Lady Cynthia, while your husband is at the bank, we were wondering whether you would care to join some of us for coffee tomorrow morning. We usually meet here in the hotel at about 11.00 if that would suit you.’
‘That’s very kind of you. I would be delighted.’ 
‘Good, it will be an opportunity to get to know you a little better and perhaps we can show you some of the sights and do a bit of shopping perhaps.’
Cynthia wondered whether this was their usual lifestyle…coffee, entertaining and shopping. It would all be a bit tedious for her. 
If Richard and Cynthia were expecting more from the evening, they were to be disappointed. The fun, as Cynthia had put it earlier, really hadn’t started. In truth it was just a get together to welcome them to Berlin. After about an hour, the party started to break up and couples started to leave. Cynthia and Richard did the same.
‘Thank you very much for inviting us Franz,’ said Richard.
‘A great pleasure. I will see you at the bank tomorrow’, and looking at Cynthia, ‘I understand from Gerda that Heidi has invited you to join the ladies for coffee.  I have it on good authority that the cakes are excellent.  Good night to you both.’
They placed their glasses on the tray and walked out. 
‘I don’t know about you, but I could use a proper drink,’ said Richard, ‘but first let’s sort out  a table for dinner. Those canapes were not very filling were they.’ 
Having reserved their table, they moved to the bar and ordered their drinks. A few from the party were there as well. They acknowledged their fellow guests as they moved through to a more secluded spot in the corner where they were able to have view of the whole room. 
Keeping her voice low, Cynthia said, ‘What did you make of that then?’
‘Bit of a non-event really. It was all very polite, but the atmosphere was unusually formal wasn’t it. It was as if they had been told to attend, yet it was all just chat about nothing. What about you, did you pick up anything on your language antennae?’ he smiled.
‘No, they were talking about us, but apart from a couple of critical comments about my dress sense, there was nothing of interest. I think the invitation to coffee is significant. Perhaps the wives will be more outgoing tomorrow when their husbands aren’t there. We shall see. Let’s go and eat.’

‘
























