
CHAPTER 11  
As Richard left to go to the Bank, Cynthia joined the ladies in the Japanese garden.
‘Ah, Lady Cynthia, so glad you could join us. I think you know everyone here. Please help yourself to coffee and a cake.’ She pointed out a silver pot in the centre of the table. We try to meet here every day so feel free to join us whenever you can, but before I forget we would like to invite you both to a more formal get together on Thursday evening here in the restaurant. I say formal, but that does not mean evening dress.’
‘Do you have any plans for today?’ asked one of the women.
‘Well, I did think of walking down to the Cathedral, after lunch. I understand it is well worth a visit.’
‘Absolutely, it is a wonderful building. It looks a lot older than it actually is.’ She looked at one of her companions for confirmation. 
’Only 28 years old to be precise,’ came a reply.
The occasion, although pleasant was not really what Cynthia wanted to do. Although she was carrying out instructions, there was little to hear and observe. It was very much a few well-heeled ladies meeting for a gossip and a cake. Nothing at all of interest. 
Apart from her visit to the architecturally impressive Cathedral, which was really a collegiate church because it was not the ‘seat’ of a bishop, the next couple of days fell into a natural routine. Richard was transported to the bank and Cynthia joined the ladies at the same time and in the same place.  In the evenings they discussed their non-eventful days and questioned why they had made the trip. It was not until the Thursday evening reception that things became more interesting.
Although it was not formal, it did give Cynthia the excuse to wear one of her new outfits. Now was the time to make an impression. Her new dress was in rust-coloured rayon-satin which gave it an impressive drape and sheen. Her sleeves were slashed to the elbow, and the back down low enough not to be too risqué, and she had an art-deco diamanté clasp on her belt. She carried a small clutch bag of the same colour. She certainly stood out from the crowd, and heads turned as she entered the room…mostly the men. Richard was in a dark, but nonetheless very smart suit. 
Gerda Stammer came across to greet her. ‘Lady Cynthia, you look stunning. You put the rest of us to shame.’
‘I’m not too overdressed am I,’ conscious that she was, ‘never quite sure what to wear at these events. I could go back and change into something a bit more casual if you want me to.’ Knowing that she wouldn’t.
‘No, you’re fine. Please help yourself to the canapes and cocktails.’ And saying that she took two glasses from a waiter and handed them to Cynthia and Richard. They peeled away and took the opportunity to socialise, although in passing she was aware of a few uncomplimentary remarks from some of the women…
‘Das ist ein wenig über der Spitze, denken Sie nicht‘. (That dress is a little bit over the top, don’t you think?)
‘Wer versucht sie zu beeindrucken?‘ (Who is she trying to impress?’)
Cynthia just smiled as if she didn’t understand. ‘Good’, she thought, ‘people were taking notice.’
As they walked around, she became very aware that the small talk was much different than the coffee mornings and the welcome party. She had to be very careful that she did not make it obvious that she understood the conversations, but it was interesting that when she approached groups the topics changed to more mundane ones. She overheard them discussing the unemployment figures, how hard it was to get the country out of the recession, what a shame it was that Hitler did not gain the Presidency in the March elections and the fact that Hindenberg now had another seven years in office, although the consensus was that he wouldn’t live that long. It became very obvious to her that this was a group of like-minded people, all very right wing in their political leanings.  There was a lot of support for Hitler, and some relief that the ban imposed by Chancellor Bruning on the activities of the SA (the paramilitary wing of the Nazi party) and the SS (Hitler’s bodyguard) had been overturned by Von Papen when he had taken over in June. Some of the guests were talking of a future war being the only way that Germany could gain her rightful place in Europe again. On a couple of occasions both Richard and Cynthia were asked direct questions about where they stood on the issues. Remembering their reason for being there, they adopted an ultra-conservative stance, expressing sympathy for the economic plight of their hosts, support for a more disciplined approach to deal with the undesirables in the country, and a wish that there was an equivalent movement in the UK. Gradually more people in the room were now prepared to air their views in English so they could include their guests in the debate. 

Cynthia found herself leaning on the fireplace listening to ever-increasing extremist diatribes and simply nodding in agreement.
After a while a slight commotion occurred outside in the reception area. Into the room strode a grey-suited man of average height sporting his trademark moustache, together with three others, none of whom Cynthia had seen in the British newspapers, with the exception of his bodyguard. Adolf Hitler had arrived at the personal invitation of Herr Stammer. Normally he would not patronise the hotel because Louis Adlon was solidly anti-Nazi, but tonight was an exception. 
Cynthia tapped Richard on the arm and whispered, ‘Very significant don’t you think. This confirms everything we suspected about this evening.’ He nodded. 
The room went very quiet as if the occupants were expecting a speech or something, but Hitler took a glass of water offered by Gerda and then proceeded to mingle, gesticulating as he went and absorbing the adulation and platitudes that were aimed at him. 
At this point Cynthia glanced in the mirror. ‘Oh my god,’ she exclaimed quietly. ‘Richard’, she murmured, ‘don’t make it obvious but take a look by door. I’ve just seen the Harringtons.’ He turned slowly towards the other end of the room. 
‘But didn’t Louise say they don’t travel because of his health.’
‘That’s right, so what are they doing here?’
‘Your guess is as good as mine, but how are we going to play this. Fortunately, the language situation is fine because you mentioned that at Denleigh, but if they see us and ask, I think we should shift the emphasis off you and onto me. After all, technically this is my business trip and you are accompanying me. Wow, take a look now.’
Cynthia looked at the reflection again and saw the Harringtons in deep conversation with Hitler, who was also taking a great interest in the other couple standing next to them.  
‘I don’t recognise the other people, do you? They weren’t at the weekend do, although they could be the absent Davies’ I suppose.’
Cynthia’s thoughts were interrupted by the arrival of a tall elegant man with swept back dark hair. He greeted them in German 
‘Guten Abend Lady Cynthia, Mr Childreth,‘ and then quietly in perfect English, ‘the Wing-Commander sends his regards.’
This was their contact.
‘Have you managed to see the garden yet? Perhaps you would allow me to show you. It’s this way,’ he said rather loudly.
They followed him outside and when far enough from the building he stopped and faced them.
‘I’m from next door, you don’t need to know my name but if anyone should come over call me Paul. You’ve noticed the Harringtons have you? In case you’re wondering the other couple are Sir John and Lady Davies, Megan. We have been aware of them for some time, but certainly did not expect to see them here.’ He changed the conversation to unrelated small talk as someone walked past, then took up the strand again. ‘Listening to various conversations this evening, and a couple of reports we have received regarding your coffee meetings.’ Cynthia looked surprised. ‘Don’t worry,’ he continued, ‘one of the waiters works for us. You are likely to be asked about your willingness to join a group of German sympathisers working in Britain. It is unlikely to be tonight, but it may come tomorrow from one of the other ladies in the group. Don’t say yes straight away, because that might seem too keen, but give them your answer after thinking about it for a few minutes. Then just wait and see what transpires. If this does happen tomorrow the point of you being here will have been achieved, although we are sure there is more to come from the bank.  Are you desperate to stay for the weekend as planned, and by all means do so if you would like, or would you like to fly back on Saturday? I’m sure Bill will want to explain the next stage as soon as possible. If nothing happens then we’ll stay with the original plan. Richard, at the bank tomorrow do you think you can get them to come to the point and explain why they are so keen to have a link with yours. I get the impression from one of our guys on the inside that, as yet, the discussions have had no focus and are just window dressing.’
‘Glad you said that, because I have been thinking exactly the same thing. I’ll try to pin them down.’ 
‘Good, now act naturally, we have not had this conversation, and frankly I would like to leave before Herr Hitler makes his way around the entire room. Good night to you both.’
Cynthia looked at Richard. ‘Shall we do the same, nobody will miss us because they are all intent on watching Hitler. I fancy and early night. What about you?’
‘Thought you’d never asked.’ he replied with a smirk.

