
CHAPTER 12
The next day started like any other, although this time Cynthia got up earlier and went for a walk through one of the arches of the Brandenberg Gate, dodging the traffic as she did so, and into the Tiergarten.  She ignored a line of ex-servicemen, some limbless, others disabled in other ways, and younger men who had suffered during the economic depression who were selling a selection of pamphlets, maps, or offering their services as guides to the unwary tourists entering the site. Since the financial collapse there were many Germans below the poverty line whose only recourse was to beg or busk on the streets. 
According to her guide map, the Tiergarten had been on the site since 1527 when it was established as a hunting area for the Elector of Brandenburg.  She strolled along the main drive  which had lots of well-tended paths leading off it, smelling the newly mown grass and the scent of the flowers in the beds lining the edges of the thoroughfare, and listening to the birds in the trees and the ducks on one of the many lakes. It was obviously very popular with some of the uniformed nannies from the Embassies and large houses, walking and talking together in small groups while pushing high prams and pushchairs.  
The park was huge, 520 acres, so there was no way she would be able to see everything, and certainly not the famous zoo, built in 1844, which was located on the far side. Neither did she have time to see the memorials to famous Germans such as Fontane, Lessing and Wagner.  However, she was able to see some of the animal statues and the one of Frederick William III depicting him in ordinary clothes, holding a floral wreath in one hand and the other resting on a pedestal which had a relief portrait of his wife Louise, Queen of Prussia. Cynthia could have spent the whole day exploring, and she really wanted to sit on one of the wooden slatted benches set back from the path, but she was conscious of the time and the need to get back to the hotel for coffee. So, somewhat reluctantly, she turned and traced her steps back through the gate and on towards the hotel. 
Having gone to her room to freshen up and change into something a little less casual, she entered the restaurant to be greeted effusively by her hosts. ‘This is a little over the top,’ she thought, ‘I must have made a good impression last night. Now they all want to be friends with me.’ She smiled back at the group and in deliberately awkward German said ‘Guten Morgen Damen.’ 
It was as if an invisible barrier had come down. Cynthia and Richard’s comments and opinions had obviously sent out the right message, she was now one of the group. There were more of them this time including, to her great surprise, Louise Harrington who sat at the second table to her right with a large bag beside her exposing a ball of grey wool and a couple if knitting needles. Neither of them spoke but there was a slight nod.
One of the party Monika Fischer, opened the conversation by saying, ‘Wasn’t it an honour to have Herr Hitler at the reception last night. I have seen him from a distance at one his rallies, but never that close. What did you think as an Englishwoman Lady Cynthia?’
‘Is this a test or a trap, take your time before responding.’ thought Cynthia. ‘Before I answer that,’ she said, ‘would someone kindly pass me a coffee? Thankyou.’
A cup and saucer were passed down the table while all eyes were focused on her. 
‘Well, I don’t know about the rest of you, but I was really surprised he came. I understand it is not usual for him to accept personal invitations to events like that.’
‘No indeed, he rarely socialises with people beyond his immediate circle so he must have a lot of respect for your husband Gerda.’
‘Yes, they often meet to discuss financial matters.’ She said, obviously inflating her husband’s and by association her own importance. ‘If he were to gain power, I am sure Franz would be in line for some important job.’
There were gestures of assent around the table.
‘What else did you feel Cynthia?’ The questioning was becoming more focused and intense. She took her time before answering.
‘It was obvious from the way that the people here last night, yourselves included,’ she smiled, ‘reacted to his presence that you were all pleased to see him. He has a certain magnetism and I can see why he is very popular in some circles. He seemed very self-assured. Do you mind me asking who his three colleagues were?’
‘They were his bodyguard Sepp Dietrich, the larger of the three, his Adjutant Julius Schaub who looks after all of Hitler’s security when travelling, and Albert Boorman. He works at the Chancellery and deals with all the organisations that want access to Hitler. By all accounts he is one of Hitler’s favourites, as is his brother Martin of course. Not sure he was here for any particular reason last night.’
‘Interesting, thank you. It is always useful to have some idea of the background of people like that who you don’t know. It helps to put faces to names.’
A new voice, Karen Becker, now shifted the conversation in impeccable English.
‘You are an intelligent woman Lady Cynthia, so it would not have gone unnoticed to you that as a group we are great supporters of Herr Hitler and what he is trying to do for Germany. He wants to restore the country to its former glory and take us away from the guilt of the last war and the financial implications that went with it. We seem to be perpetually beholden to the economic demands of our former enemies, including the United Kingdom, something I think your husband will be discussing at the bank this morning. We have not wanted to openly demonstrate our allegiance in these convivial sessions, until we had some idea of where your own political loyalties might lie. There are a number of people in England of your class in particular, who agree with us and, were there to be another war, although we sincerely hope that won’t ever happen, we would like to think that we might rely on them to perhaps act as a fifth column. In the meantime, they would act as propagandists, highlighting what we consider to be the advantages of National Socialism.’
‘So, this is what it’s all about,’ thought Cynthia. ‘It has all been building up to this….’
‘I think you already know Louise Harrington, but can I also introduce Lady Megan Davies.’
At this Lady Davies gave a token smile.
‘They are only two of our staunch supporters in England. We have gathered from your comments this week, that you are not too impressed with the politics and the general state of British society, and so, not to waste any more time, we would like to invite you to become a member of our rather elite group. What do you think? I realise that this will come as a surprise to you so please take time to talk to your husband if you wish. However, you will be aware of the need for confidentiality. By asking you to join us, we have rather exposed our political leanings so whatever your decision is we hope you will honour that and not say or do anything that will compromise out network.’
Cynthia made out to be taken aback by the suggestion and fabricated shock and surprise.
‘Ladies, I am honoured to be taken into your confidence, so rest assured that anything you have said here, will remain between us. However, before I make a final decision, I would like to speak with Richard first if I may, because this will involve us both, and I would need to know precisely what it is you would like me to do. But I am sure we would like to be part of whatever you are organising.’ 
One of the others, took over. ‘I am Lena Weber, one of the original members of this group so I am best placed to answer that question Lady Cynthia, but unfortunately my English is not good so my friends will translate for me.’ 
Cynthia resisted the temptation to say that German would be fine and leant forward on the table showing a positive intent in finding out more details. As it was of course, she could understand everything that was being said. As the situation was now more relaxed and the difficult question had been asked, she detected a distinct swing among the group. All were now speaking German, including Louise and Megan. 
So, while Lena explained Gerda translated. 
‘Your role will have two elements. As Karen said earlier, we would like you to tell your friends, associates and perhaps some of your politicians about the advantages of National Socialism and countering the rise of Communism across some of the countries in Europe, including yours, although I accept that it is not a major concern is your country. Second, there may be a need to send some of our colleagues across to the UK to attend meetings with groups of similar persuasion and also social events where they might have the opportunity to further our cause. We would simply ask that like Louise and Megan, you might host one or two and create opportunities for them to meet like-minded people. We would keep in contact with you and would just let you know in advance should the need arise. Of course, your assistance may not be needed for a while, if ever, but it would be good to know that we could rely on your hospitality. Does that help?’
‘Yes. However, a couple of points if I may. Would you contact me direct or through someone else, and would you at any point give me a list of the people you would wish me to invite to any gatherings?’
‘We would get in touch with you via our friends in the UK. I take it you have your own telephone in the house.’
‘Yes.’
‘In that case, that would be the best way to reach you. We can sort out possible passwords or other identifiable phrases or words at a later date if we need to. With regards the list, we would not want to make that generally available, so we would rely on your instinct to select suitable people to invite, and we will give you a few extras, shall we say, nearer the event.’ 
‘Thank you, I now have something I can discuss with Richard as he is bound to ask the same questions. Can I say that depending on what happens at the bank this morning, Richard and I may be flying home tomorrow if he is no longer required here. I’m sure you will appreciate the financial situation in the UK is also unstable, so his time might be better served in his own office. Nonetheless, rest assured that I will give you an answer this evening. Shall I meet a couple of you in the bar at 7.00?’
‘That sounds like an excellent idea,’ replied Gerda. ‘We will see you then.’ Then turning to the group she said, in English, ‘Well ladies, I think we have concluded today’s business so I suggest we go our separate ways,’ and then in German, ‘Ich denke, Sie werden zustimmen, dass wir eine ausgezeichnete Wahl getroffen haben. Ich bin überzeugt, dass Cynthia eine große Bereicherung für unsere Gruppe sein wird. Bis morgen um 11.00 Uhr. Monika und ich werden Cynthia später treffen. Guten Tag.’
Cynthia was able to understand it as ‘I think you will agree that we have made an excellent choice. I am convinced Cynthia will be a great addition to our group. Until tomorrow at 11.00. Monika and I will meet with Cynthia later. Good day.’
Many of the group approached Cynthia and welcomed her to the group and said that in case they didn’t see her tomorrow for coffee, it had been a great pleasure meeting her. Louise and Megan also came across. 
‘Cynthia, I’m sorry we were unable to get to Denleigh, I am Megan Davies. Good to meet you.’
‘Likewise,’ she replied at the same time shaking hands. 
‘We’ve both been involved in this for a while now, so anything you need to know please ask.’
‘One thing Louise, you made a big thing at Denleigh about not knowing Germany, or German, and not travelling because of Bob’s health. Why was that?’
Neither of us were sure about the views of the others, especially as Amy had invited us out of the blue. The Snowdens are in on this as well of course, but you probably gathered that from his outspoken views over the weekend. Bob and I were a little concerned that he might say something that would give us away. He can be very indiscrete when he has had a few drinks. We always need to watch him, but Marjorie keeps a close eye. She is actually more forceful in her views than he is. We’ll leave you now to do some more sightseeing or shopping, but if you don’t mind, we won’t join you as we have things to do and other people to see. We will probably join you and the others in the bar this evening.’
With that, they went back to their seats and proceeded to finish their coffees. ‘Must be cold,’ thought Cynthia, just to lighten the proceedings. 

While Cynthia was having her meeting, Richard was also being quizzed at the Bank.



























