
CHAPTER 13
Richard was determined to achieve something at this morning’s meeting. So far, he had spent hours listening to tales of woe about how Germany had been unfairly dealt with at the Treaty of Versailles and how the former allies had basically ganged up to make sure the country would never be strong enough ever to go to war again. 
‘How were we meant to pay 132 billion gold marks? Not only was the sum unreasonable, it was impossible to pay. We were not the only country to cause damage to civilian properties. I myself saw action at the front, as I am sure you did. We would have both seen the destruction caused by both sides.’
‘Yes, I agree with that point, but, with respect Herr Stammer, you didn’t pay did you. That was why the French occupied the Ruhr area in ’23 to force you into paying. I have to say that at the time it did seem odd for them to take over your industrial area which could have generated money for you, but some good did come out of it. Wasn’t the Dawes plan introduced in ‘24 allowing you different ways to pay?’
‘Yes, but we still couldn’t meet our commitments. It wasn’t until the Young plan in ‘28 that things changed, and not really for the better. All that happened was a slight reduction in the overall amount we owed and a schedule of payments which will mean we will not pay off the debt until 1988. On top of that our economy totally collapsed last year, so we are hoping for better things at Lausanne. Fortunately, because of President Hoover’s actions, we have not had to pay anything this past year which has helped a little so we are optimistic that will continue.’
‘About that Herr Stammer, I admire your confidence in us, but my bank and any other bank in Britain, is unlikely to have any impact whatsoever over the decision making at the meeting, those will be made at Ministerial level. Which brings me to an important question. Personally, I don’t think you asked me over here to meet you to discuss the Lausanne conference because from your own experience, you must know that we would have no influence, so tell me, what is the real reason?’
There was a pause before he answered.
‘First of all, you need to know that you and your wife were recommended to us by friends in the UK who met you recently. I understand that you spoke to one of them, Marjorie Snowden, at the party last night. As you have quite rightly determined, this visit was not entirely to do with banking, although one of the favours I have to ask is of a financial nature. 
It’s really quite simple. My wife and her coffee group are at this very moment offering your wife the chance to help us put Germany on the world stage again by, if you like, acting as an unofficial goodwill ambassador in the UK highlighting the benefits of National Socialism. I am sure she will discuss this with you when you get back to the hotel. So, I won’t go into it now beyond saying that we would like you to do the same. It is apparent from your comments and political stance over the past couple of days, that you would not be averse to helping our cause. The other favour is very practical. We will be sending various colleagues to the UK to attend meetings and functions, so in order to make life easier and not to keep having to go through the process of changing currency with all the attendant paper-work and bureaucracy that it entails, we would ask that your establishment allows us to open an account which our members can draw upon when in the country. We would ensure that it is continually topped up, so there would be no danger of it ever going overdrawn. It is really just a matter of convenience. What do you think?’
‘I will as you say discuss the first point with my wife later, with regards the second 
I’m sure that could be arranged, but in what name would the account be opened. If you were sending over a number of delegates, it would be difficult to provide all of them with access to an account, or even individual cheque books.’
‘That’s a good point, we couldn’t really have a credit account listed as The Reichsbank could we?’ he smiled.
‘Let me give it some thought when I get back. I would need to run this past the other Directors anyway, so I’ll look into it and send you a reply in the next week or so. I take it that this isn’t urgent.’ 
‘Certainly not, it’s merely a matter of having something in place should the need arise. If something untoward was to happen we would just close the account. Can I leave it with you then?’
‘Of course. Now, having vetted our political leanings over the past couple of days do you think our business here is concluded? It would be very useful if my wife and I could fly home tomorrow as I have a lot to do.’
‘I fully understand. I hope you don’t feel it has been a wasted journey. We have enjoyed entertaining you. I hope that our mutual interests will be of benefit to both of us. Any help you can give us, both as individuals and as a Director of the bank, will not go unnoticed and will be very much appreciated. I sincerely hope that we will meet again in the near future. Perhaps we might attend one of your soirees.’
‘I’m sure that can be arranged, and we would be delighted to host you both. Many thanks for your hospitality Franz. I will be in touch.’
Franz shook Richard’s hand vigorously, gave a slight bow and wished them both a safe journey home. ‘Auf Wiedersehen, haben eine sichere Heimreise. ’

Richard picked up his case, and with a cursory wave walked out of the bank into the waiting car.  ‘That was just surreal,’ he said.
‘Sorry sir, didn’t quite catch that.’
‘Not important, just talking to myself. As I am going home tomorrow now, could you drive me past some of the sights on the way back. I’m not sure what time the flight is but I’ll let you know.’
‘No need sir, your flight leaves at 14.30 so I will pick you up at 12.00 from the hotel. I will have your tickets with me. There will be a car waiting for you at Croydon to take you back home, so there will be no need for you to catch any trains.’
‘Impressive service.’
With that he proceeded to take Richard on a brief guided tour of the city.













