
CHAPTER 14 
Richard and Cynthia had much to talk about over dinner which as they had nothing else to do, they took early. They were both impressed by the standard of cuisine so took their time enjoying the food in front of them, salmon, followed by a rack of lamb. 
‘Was your day as interesting as mine?’ asked Cynthia over a glass of cold Riesling. 
‘Probably, after putting up with a tirade about how hard done by the Germans are, I pinned Franz down to the real reason we’re here. I gathered from what he said, that you were going through a similar interview with the ladies. That does sound a little bland doesn’t it. We ought to give them a name like those women who used to knit by the guillotine in the Paris Terror. I’ll remember their name in a minute.’
‘Yes, I did have a good stroll through the Tiergarten, thanks for asking.’
‘Sorry, I thought you wanted to talk about the meetings.’
‘Well, we already had a fair idea of why we were here, so it came as no surprise, but in their words, they would like me to be an unofficial good-will ambassador for National Socialism, just as Bill suspected, or indeed expected. What about you?’
‘Same thing really. Our meetings had nothing to do with banking, except Franz would like me to set up an account for visiting delegates to England to draw on. He wants me to arrange a credit facility with a cheque book. Like you, he also wants me to acclaim the virtues of what he sees as the next regime.’
‘I was asked if I would organise house parties for like-minded people and host some of these so-called delegates that you mentioned. Were you given any time scale?’
‘Les tricoteuse!’
‘Sorry?’
‘Les tricoteuse. The name of the French knitters. We’ll need to think of something similar, but I wouldn’t think that any of them knit, do you?  Anyway ‘die Stricker’ doesn’t have the same ring to it.’
‘Can we get back to today?’
‘Ah, no, there did not seem to be any urgency. Do you think we need to write down any pertinent points, or can we remember them when we meet Bill, incidentally, our transport has already been arranged? We fly out at 2.30 tomorrow afternoon and there will be car waiting for us when we arrive. I suppose we should contact Bill when we get home, or perhaps we can leave that until Monday.’
Cynthia suddenly jumped to her feet. ‘What’s the time?’
‘Just coming up for 7. Why?’
‘I almost forgot that I am meeting Gerda and a couple of the ladies in the bar to give them our answer. I presume that we are going through with this; no second thoughts.’
‘Our journey would have been a waste of time if we now said no. It’s what we were sent here for.  I’ll come with you to demonstrate a united front,’ he chuckled.
They were already there waiting for them.
‘I have taken the liberty of ordering a bottle of wine, if that is alright with you,’ said Gerda, ‘have you had time to think over our proposal?’
‘Yes, and we both agree that we would be honoured to assist you in any way we can.’
‘Excellent. Ah here is the wine, we will drink a toast.’
She filled the glasses and then raised hers towards them with a ‘Prost’.
‘Cheers,’ they replied in unison.
They chatted about nothing in particular for a while, until as one, the ladies said their goodbyes and left, all except Gerda who remained behind to say. ‘Welcome to the group. Be assured that you will be doing important work on our behalf. I look forward to meeting you both in the near future. Someone will be in touch. Have a pleasant trip.’ She then strolled off to catch up with the others. 

The journey home was much more comfortable than Monday’s. They had no bill to pay, because it had already been covered, so they had their bags collected from their room and carried to the car, tipped the porter, got in and were on their way. On reflection it had been a strange few days and, in all honesty, they had only seen a rather sanitised version of what was happening in the country. They had stayed in an expensive hotel, well beyond the means of most people and had not ventured very far from the privileged area it was in. In addition, they had only met an affluent group of people who were all focused on the same political agenda, so although they had agreed to support National Socialism and they had played the game with their hosts, they had not actually seen any of its influence. They both agreed that once back home they would have to do some detailed research on it, so they had enough background material to act out their roles. 
The return flight was less turbulent and apart from a few unsettling moments they even managed to drink their coffee without spilling it. The plane landed at Croydon on time and after all the bureaucratic procedures had been dealt with, they left via the main door to be hailed by the same driver as before standing alongside the black Daimler. They walked across the road, placed their luggage in the boot and opened the rear doors.
‘Good trip?’ said a voice from the front.
‘Hello, Bill. We didn’t expect you to be here, we were going to call you on Monday.’
‘All part of the service, dear boy. No seriously, I just wanted to have a quick word about your trip before we have a full de-brief on Monday. We will come to you this time, rather than you have to traipse up to London. How did it go?’
Both Cynthia and Richard gave him the bare facts about what had happened, and then the conversation became more general as they both watched the countryside going past the window. If truth be told, they were both glad to be home.  Playing out the charade had been more taxing than they had realised.  A couple of hours later they pulled up in front of their house, offered a drink to Bill, who politely declined…’Sorry, I need to get back, but I will see you on Monday. Would 11 be alright with you?’
‘That should be fine. In the meantime, we will write down some of the relevant details, so you have them to hand.’
‘Until Monday then.’ And with that Bill spoke to the driver who then turned the car, and drove back, presumably to London.













