
CHAPTER 15
Bill, Jane and Hannah arrived exactly on time on Monday morning, driven in the same black Daimler by the same driver.
Cynthia led them down the hallway past paintings of generations of old family members staring down at them from the walls. Richard had had to go into the office early, so it was left to her to explain precisely what had taken place the previous week.
‘Really sorry that Richard isn’t here, there was a bit of a flap in the office over the weekend and he had no other option but to go up to London. He does send his apologies and I’ll make sure he is aware of anything we say or decide here today. He did fill me in about his meetings at the bank, so I can explain that as well.’
‘No problem, these things happen, and life has to carry on.’ 
‘I’ll get Mary to bring in some drinks for us. She’s my secretary and coffee maker and can be trusted implicitly, so there is no need to worry about her being around when we’re discussing anything.’
She rose and went to adjacent room which served as an office. ‘Mary, may we have some coffee please and could you take one out to the driver?’
Bill resumed the conversation. ‘Cynthia, let me just say from the outset that we, and others, are extremely grateful to you both for helping us out in this way. I shouldn’t think it was easy last week acting a part that you were not used to and making statements that you didn’t agree with.  How did you find it?’
‘Well, to be honest I never realised how stressful it had been until we got into the car with you on Saturday and we could unwind. I think the most difficult thing was not giving away that I am fluent in German. A couple of times I came close, but nobody suspected. Actually, knowing the language didn’t really help because apart from picking up a few insults about my dress-sense, they were very guarded in their conversations, especially when we approached anybody. Wasn’t until we agreed to help that they became more relaxed.’
At this point Mary came in with a tray of coffee and biscuits and placed it on the table. ‘Ah thanks Mary. Before you go, may I introduce our guests. This is Bill, Hannah and Jane. We will both be seeing or hearing from them quite regularly over the next few months, so now you will at least be able to put a face to name should they ring.’
Mary shook hands with them in turn. ‘A pleasure to meet you, now if you will all excuse me, I need to get back to my work. Sorting out payments to local suppliers this morning. Working out the indecipherable writing on the invoices takes time.’ She smiled and left.
‘Going back to your German. We are not sure how the members of the group that we know of so far are contacted, or in what language, so I would say that your linguistic skills may be more useful later,’ said Hannah. Did you meet anyone you recognised?’
‘Apart from Adolf, which was a bit of a shock, the ones that surprised us most were the Harrington’s and the Davies, who of course we missed at Denleigh.  Louise was obviously well in with the German ladies, and she and Bob spent quite a time talking to Hitler. I did not really have a long conversation with Lady Davies, as there was little opportunity to do so, although I have to say she and Louise did seem to be a double act. Other than that, no other people were mentioned. However, there are obviously sympathisers here, because one of the things we have been asked to do is organise a house party or two for our own friends together with some guests suggested to us by the German ladies. We must think of something else to call them. Richard and I thought about ‘the Knitters’ because they reminded us of the women who sat knitting by the guillotine.’
‘That’s as good as any other…knitters it shall be,’ replied Hannah with a smile.
‘What was Richard asked to do?’ asked Jane.
‘He had a worse time of it than I did, poor dear, at least I managed to do some sight-seeing and had coffee. He seemed to spend all his time in an office getting nowhere. It wasn’t until Friday, when Richard took the initiative that they got to the point. Basically, they would like the bank to organise credit facilities for any of their so-called delegates who might be coming over here for meetings. I presume these will be the people I will be asked to invite for supper. Richard was going to discuss this with the other Directors this morning. So, can I ask where we go from here?’
Bill put his brief case on the table and took out a sheaf of papers. 
‘This is what we know so far. As we mentioned at Denleigh, we have been aware for some time that there’s a group of National Socialist sympathisers in the country drumming up support for similar political parties here, and also offering help to their counterparts in Germany, the ‘knitters’ as you put it. We know some of the individuals, like the Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies, and those of the effete groups shall we say who always appear in the press complaining about or supporting various right-wing causes because of their status in political or artistic  circles, but as yet we have little knowledge of those in the background, or those on the ground.’
‘Consider these to be the worker ants,’ said Jane. ‘They are not influential or a threat as individuals, but as a group or groups they could pose a threat. We are in the process of getting as much information we can about their intentions, and whether or not, if push came to shove, they really would have the courage to work for the other side. Having met the ladies, you are now in a better position to understand the fervour of these people.’  
Bill continued, ‘You will be aware of Mosleys’ interest in the far-right. The New Party, although popular when he set up in ’31, has increasingly veered towards fascist policies and was becoming more authoritarian and radical. In a way it was fortuitous that when the Prime Minister called the election later that year, they gained no seats and lost the ones they had held before. Even Mosley himself lost his wife’s previous seat in Stoke. Since then he has been touring Europe looking at other similar movements and seems to be very taken with the fascists in Italy. He actually shared a platform with Mussolini. He now seems more determined to unite all those in this country with fascist leanings. Hence his new British Union of Fascists which is attracting those who are anti-communist, highly nationalistic to the point of being authoritarian, and very protective of the British economy. We estimate that they now have about 50,000 members and the support of some of the press, notably the Mail and Mirror; this is not something we can ignore. What we don’t know is what they intend to do with this new-found popularity, hence our need to gather as much information as possible. Your involvement in this will be extremely useful and could be pivotal.’ 
‘So, what do you actually want us to do?’
Bill turned to Hannah. ‘Would you like to explain?’
‘We need to say now, that we do not know how long you will need to be involved, so we cannot give you any indication of time. It may be that the BUF will go the way of the New Party and fizzle out, but frankly we cannot see that happening, at least not in the near future. Hosting events, and housing delegates from fascist organisations in Europe will be a great help. Incidentally, you said that the ‘knitters’ may send you a list of people to invite. We will do the same and we will include some of our people who will be there to observe and listen, in the same way as you did last week. We may organise some sort of recognition signals should you need to know who they are. We know you have a phone, but how many extensions do you have?’
‘Three, one in the hall, one in Richard’s study and another in our bedroom.’
‘How secure are they, can you hear any conversation on all the extensions at the same time?’
‘Yes, if we both pick up the same time, we can hear each other.’
‘Just as I thought. Don’t change any of the arrangements because we might be able to get information from any phone contact, but what we are going to do is put in another external line which will be the direct contact between us. You will have a new number. I suggest you place the phone where any prying guests won’t come across it. Can I suggest that you move the one in your bedroom to Mary’s office, and replace it with the new one? We will try to get this organised in the next couple of days. If any of your neighbours should question it, the engineers are just fixing a problem on the existing line.’
‘As you can see, we are not overlooked, so that shouldn’t be a problem. Most people around here keep themselves to themselves.’
‘There is another reason for having a new direct line as there may be an attempt to tap into your existing phone. You should be aware of this happening, because you will hear a definite click when you pick up the receiver. Although on the surface you seem to be trusted, there may be some who over time may question your motives, or indeed your true allegiance. So, when it’s all fixed up, just remember that normal day-to-day contact will be on the existing phone, and communication with us on the new one. The only calls you receive on the new number will be from bona fide people within our office, and there will also be code word at the very beginning of every message unless you recognise our voice. We are the ones most likely to ring you. Is that OK?’
‘Perfectly clear. I presume all bank related issues for Richard will still come through on the present phone.
‘Yes. We will be working closely with the directors of the bank and anything urgent that Richard needs to be aware of pertaining to this, will come via us. Sorry about all the subterfuge, but we are just covering all eventualities.’
‘There is something else’, said Jane. ‘As you will soon be part of the anti-establishment group and working for us at the same time, we will no longer meet at our office. You may well find yourself being followed, again they will be checking out your status. So, if we have to meet, we will give you details of somewhere very public, like a tea shop or restaurant where it seems you are attending some social gathering.  It might not be one of us, but a trusted colleague. Should it be someone unknown to you they will use Wing-Commander in the greeting in some form.  It’s better that way, because meeting the same person every time may be a bit suspicious. If you do feel that you are being followed, then let us know. It would blow your cover if we reacted immediately so we would probably have someone follow the follower, as he or she, and remember it could be woman, might inadvertently lead us to someone else.’
‘That was a lot to take in, but do you have any immediate questions for us. 
‘No, I don’t think so, but I will probably remember something as soon as you’ve gone.’
‘Good, ring us on the new phone when it has been installed. We will send you all the necessary passwords and identification measures when we have sorted them out, certainly by the end of the week, but we are unlikely to need them. 
We are now entering the next phase, and we have no idea where it will lead to, if anywhere. Above all, act normal, have your parties, and be patient. We will keep you up to date with any developments at our end.’
He turned to the others, ‘Have we covered everything, if so, I think we should be getting back. Please update Richard, and if you are totally convinced of Mary’s reliability, I would suggest you give her some indication of what we intend doing so she does not give anything away inadvertently. It may also be useful for you to have her as back up. We will be in contact.’
With that, the three of them rose, shook hands with Cynthia and left. 
‘Now we just sit and wait,’ she thought.




