
CHAPTER 16
Richard returned late in the afternoon and over a cup of tea Cynthia explained the details of her conversation with Bill and the others. 
‘I suppose, then, I can use the new phone line for any related bank business. Incidentally, the Directors have agreed and arranged a bank account and cheque book in the name of T.G.Edwards. The Chief Cashier is going to let Stammer know officially tomorrow morning. I realise he wanted to choose the name, but we all thought it better we did because it gives us more control. I will mention this to Bill when we are next in contact. Incidentally, they had a good laugh when I told them that Stammer wanted us to support them at Lausanne.’

The following day a medium sized bronzy-green Albion van, with ladders attached to both sides, and ‘post office telephones’ stencilled on the doors, parked on the road outside the house. Two men in dark overalls got out, took off the ladders and one of them, with a large belt that went around his waist and through his legs which he could lean back on, draped the cable over his shoulder, and proceeded to climb the telegraph pole until he reached the permanent rungs on the side. He clipped his belt around the pole and continued to go higher until he was standing on the uppermost step.  He then leant back so the belt took his weight, freed up his hands and set about connecting the black landline to one of the insulators at the top. Within the hour, they had strung the wire from the pole through the trees by the road and attached it to the existing bracket on the side of the house. Only then did they knock on the door.
‘Good morning Madam. We have been asked to install a new telephone for you. All the wire is in place, so we just need to sort things out inside if we may. If you could let us know where you want the new appliance to go, we will get on with it and be out of your way as soon as possible.’
They were true to their word. Within half an hour of Mary showing them the way to the master bedroom, and a cup of tea later, they had fitted and tested the line and re-joined Cynthia and Mary in the library.
‘It’s ready to go now,’ he said to Cynthia. ‘I won’t explain how it works because you already have one, but we were asked to remove the plate on the front with the number on, just in case prying eyes see it, so you can have it to put somewhere safe. You’ll get to know the number pretty quickly anyway.’ He handed her a circular piece of paper. ‘I think that’s all. We’ve tidied up and removed the excess wire outside so you’ve no need to worry about anything. If, you don’t have any questions we’ll be off.’
‘Thanks very much for coming so quickly. We didn’t expect you until later in the week,’ she said, offering them a rather generous tip. 
‘Oh! Thank you, Madam. I hope you have a good day. Goodbye.’ They both picked up their tools and returned to their van.

Despite the initial rush and intensity to get things in place nothing happened for quite a while. The Lausanne Conference that Franz Stammer had pinned his hopes on finished in July with only moderate concessions. The delegates from the countries requiring financial credit, the UK, France, Belgium and Italy all agreed that the on-going economic crisis throughout the world made it almost impossible for Germany to continue to pay reparations, although they decided she would have to give 3 billion Reichsmarks in bonds, to the Bank of International settlements which had only been set up in 1930. In effect, the Lausanne Protocol, which was rejected by the US Congress and never officially ratified, put an end to any attempts to get reparations from Germany. 
Although Britain was going through a difficult time both politically and economically, which affected Richard’s bank and kept him in the office for considerable lengths of time, it was of little concern to daily life in the village which just went on as normal. The country had lost almost half of its overseas trade and output from the heavy industries went into serious decline. As a result, the unemployment figures had gone up to over three million with many others only working part time. In the hardest hit areas, which relied on the mining, iron and steel and shipbuilding, many families were struggling to cope and were having to rely on relief from local government in the form of dole money. However, there were tiny glimmers of hope. There was a rise in housebuilding especially around London and other cities, and surprisingly the car industry was prospering. Yet, the political situation was still unstable and there was a danger that more extremist views would be heard. 
Amid all of this there had been no contact from either side of the Channel apart from the information passed to Stammer about the account. Considering what was going on in Europe, it was all a bit of an anti-climax. The new phone remained silent so Cynthia and Richard both got on with their lives; the daily commute to the City for Richard, and the running of the house and the huge garden for Cynthia.  
Christmas came and went with the usual carol service, the school nativity play which Cynthia was honour-bound to attend as Chair of the School Board, the invitations to endure endless mulled wine and mince pies at various venues around the village, and ultimately Christmas dinner, expertly cooked by a chef hired for the occasion, shared with their immediate close family. On the 31st December the church bells rang in the New Year and having decided that they would spend it alone, Richard and Cynthia raised a glass of rather agreeable champagne and toasted each other.  
‘What do you think 1933 will bring?’ Richard asked. 
‘I’m not sure, let’s just wait and see. We’re living in interesting times so anything could happen. It will be good to sort out the country’s financial problems, and I am concerned about the social tensions, but we should leave that to the politicians and you the bankers to deal with. Anyhow, enough of being maudlin, it’s the New Year, so how do you fancy taking the bottle upstairs and continuing our celebrations in bed?’ she gave him a suggestive wink.  

























