
CHAPTER 17 
Although there was no official communication from her friends in Germany, Cynthia kept a close eye on how things were unfolding. In November 1932 the Nazi Party had lost 35 seats in the election but it still remained the Reichstag’s largest party. Cynthia had thought that there would have been some response to this from the Knitters, but none was forthcoming. Despite this set back, Hitler was gaining more support, especially from a group of important Industrialists who urged President Hinderburg to appoint him as Chancellor, which he reluctantly agreed to do. 
When the new cabinet was formed on 30th January 1933 Hitler was officially appointed Chancellor and two of his colleagues, Göring and Frick, were also given seats. For a short while Hitler led a coalition government formed by the NSDAP and the German National People’s Party. There were great celebrations across the country and torchlit parades in Berlin and Cynthia could imagine Gerda and some of the others joining in. After all, this was precisely what they had wanted, a strong man, who they obviously worshipped, now in charge. Cynthia gave some thought as to what stance the ‘knitters’ would now take, especially as, according to quotes from the German press reported in her Times, the conservative politicians felt that they could control both him as an individual and the Nazi party in general; not really what they would want. She also noted that according to the same sources ‘there was little fear of Hitler establishing an authoritarian regime along the lines of Mussolini, because, it would be impossible to create a dictatorship in a country which expounded the virtues of freedom of thought and speech.’  However, others were not so sure. According to the Times Berlin correspondent, the British Ambassador there commented that the Nazi’s had come to stay, and a senior spokesman to the Foreign Office was heard to remark that another European war was again possible.  
‘Here we go again,’ thought Cynthia
It took less than two months for Hitler to take control of the country completely and it was only then that she was contacted… by letter, which surprised her as she could not remember giving anyone in Germany her address. She thought any communication would come through the bank to Richard especially as this one was written by Gerda Stammer. Although an obvious and natural way of communicating, it did make her feel rather uneasy. 

The letter dated 30th March was basically praising the actions of Hitler in the Reichstag the previous week, when he had insisted on being granted emergency powers to enable him to govern without consent of Parliament or constrained by the constitution. It went on to say that the group and others now had everything they had wished for, a strong leader who would take the country forward.  Cynthia read another couple of pages basically saying the same things in different ways until she came to the real focus. 
‘…I am sure that you have followed all of this in your newspapers, so you will realise how important it is for us to raise the understanding of these significant events in the UK. So, we feel now is the time for you to act on our behalf. When you were here, we mentioned the possibility of you hosting parties, soirees and other events in your house, which I understand is suitably large…’
‘How did she know that?’ thought Cynthia, a little concerned.
‘…to some extent events here have overtaken us because things have happened so fast, so we are suggesting that you might like to activate the plan we discussed as soon as possible. At the time we did not want to identify those in England who are already supporting us until we were sure about how things would unfold. But we would now like to act swiftly to take advantage of any good press as it were. We have taken the liberty of providing a list of names and addresses below of those we think you might like to invite, alongside your own friends and other like-minded people of course. We have seen in our newspapers that one of your politicians is hinting at another war. In the unlikely event of this happening, your contacts could be very useful to us.  Rest assured that this letter comes with the approval of the highest authority, read into that what you will.  Perhaps you would be kind enough to let me know at the address above when any event Is scheduled to take place as it would be very useful for us to send one or two delegates from here to support you…’
‘Oh dear,’ she muttered. ‘I am going to be observed to make sure I stick to the rules. That could make life a little more difficult.’
The letter continued for another page, but there was little of substance in the last few paragraphs. Cynthia called through to Mary who came bringing coffee with her.
‘Just to bring you up to speed, you might like to read that while I ring Bill.’
She went to her bedroom and felt rather excited about using the new phone for the first time.  Bill’s secretary picked up on the third ring.
‘Imperial Aggregates. How may I help you?’ she enquired rather imperiously.
‘Can I speak to Wing Commander Laurie please?’
‘Of course, Madam, I will connect you.’
‘Good morning Cynthia, good to see that the private line is working. What can I do for you?’
‘Hi Bill, I have just had a letter from the chief knitter asking me to set up my parties. However, before we talk about that, I have some concerns. First of all, the letter came to our home address and at no time did I mention it while over there; the only one they had was Richard’s bank. Also, they are obviously aware that I have a large house and grounds. Again, I had said nothing about this.’
‘Interesting, it is a good job that we had this phone put in. They are obviously watching you so could easily have tapped into your usual line. Have you seen any strangers in the village recently? They are unlikely to give themselves away by acting suspiciously, but someone may have asked in the post-office about your whereabouts; perhaps you could ask around.’  
‘I’ve not seen anyone, but I’ll ask, discreetly of course, although thinking about it, Mary might be the best person to do this as she has friends in the village.’
‘If they are close enough to keep an eye on you, I think we need to give you some basic training on what we call tradecraft. I’ll send someone down. He will be disguised so nobody will suspect, but it will be easier than you coming here and being followed. I will arrange it today and get back to you.  Did they mention anything else?’
‘Yes, they sent a list of names of people who I should invite. I’ve not looked at it yet, but according to Gerda they have been known to her for some time. Also, I am to let her know when I arrange the first party, because she wants to send someone over, presumably to make sure I am carrying out my orders properly,’ she chuckled.
‘That list will be extremely useful. Can you make a copy? I will get my colleague to collect it when he comes to see you. Remember that we will also be sending some of our people to your events, so you won’t be alone. Anything else?’
‘No, I don’t think so at present.’
‘Good, one last thing. They should not have had time to do it yet, because they will be unaware of the new line, however, when you contact me next, let it ring twice, put the receiver down and as you do so listen for any click. If you do hear something, then use a phone box, preferably not the one in the village. If it is clear, then continue as normal. When I contact you in a few minutes, I will do the same from this end. Anyway, don’t worry. We will make sure that you are covered. Don’t forget the usual contact name. I’ll organise the training now and ring you back. Bye for now.’
Bill rang off and Cynthia tried to remember if she had seen any strangers in the area recently. It was a small village so they would have been easy to spot. She knew the postmistress well, so would ask her later, while Mary did the same with her friends.
The phone rang twice, stopped, then started again.
‘Me again,’ said Bill, ‘done the test and there was no click. A small van driven by my colleague will be with you tomorrow morning. His name is Don, and he will be delivering fish from a shop in Newbury, it will say so on the side. He will only need to be with you for about thirty minutes, so it should not arouse any suspicion but just in case anyone is watching he has also contacted a couple of pubs and your local shop saying that he will be in the area and will have fish to sell. Will you have time to copy the list and let him have it?’
‘No problem, I will get Mary onto it right away. Thanks for your help and reassurance. I’ll let you know about the first event as soon as we get a date in the diary. I’ll discuss it with Richard this evening.’
Although she had been asked to set up something as soon as possible, she really did not want to organise anything until she could spread out into the garden. The thought of having everyone in the house, where it would be difficult keep an eye on what they might be doing did not enthral her. 
She went back to the library to her now cold coffee to discuss Bill’s conversation with Mary and ask her to transcribe the list.
‘That’s not a problem, in fact to save you the trouble, I have letters to send today so I’ll go to the post office now and make some enquiries.’ She tapped the side of her nose. ‘Anything else you want me to get while I’m there? We have plenty of envelopes and stamps for the invitations when you send them? Are you going to write them yourself or have some printed? I would suggest printing them, but handwritten ones do have the personal touch. If you like, I could do them for you and you simply sign. Up to you. Not sure why I brought that up, because we are not going to use the ones on the stand in the shop, unless you fancy ones with balloons on, and anyway they may not even have any as few invitations are sent out these days.’ She smiled, got her hat, coat and basket from the hall stand and left for the village. 
While Mary was out, Cynthia looked at the list. The Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies were there and other names she recognised but some came as a complete surprise and she found herself commenting to herself ‘really?’ ‘I wouldn’t have thought…’ ‘Well there’s a surprise.’ Some of the addresses were local, but others lived some distance away, meaning that she would have to provide accommodation. ‘What a bind.’ she thought. ‘These are going to take more planning than I thought, especially if any of the ‘knitters’ come. We’ll need to work out numbers and I think we’ll need to hire staff. Perhaps Bill will have some ideas.  Almost lunchtime. I think a walk around the garden is needed to clear my head.’
When she returned Mary was in the kitchen.
‘Any news?’ asked Cynthia.
‘No, not really, although Gladys did say that there was a green car parked along the road for most of yesterday. But she could not see anyone in it, so may have just been walkers. I didn’t ask her to keep a look out, because she will anyway. Not a lot happens around here without Gladys knowing about it. Nothing more we can do now is there so what about lunch?’
‘Good idea. I’ll organise some dates with you and Richard later, and then we wait for tomorrow’s fish delivery. We might as well buy some if he really has some with him.’ She smiled and put the kettle on.




