
CHAPTER 18
Don arrived the following morning at ten in the Fishmonger’s van. He walked up to the back of the house to the tradesman’s entrance in a white overall, carrying a wicker basket which did indeed contain fish, and introduced himself.
‘Morning, I’m Don,’ he said, touching his cap, and looking at Mary invited her to take some fish. ‘It’s all genuine and paid for, so help yourself. No charge,’ he smiled and followed her into the kitchen. ‘Now we don’t have long because I am supposed to be just a travelling salesman, so let’s get on with it.’ Mary called Cynthia. 
Although he came across as being a bit brusque, he certainly knew what he was talking about. He spent the next half-an-hour explaining ‘back doubles’, using reflections in shop windows, travel arrangements and other strategies to both Cynthia and Mary.  ‘The best thing to do is be observant and don’t look for problems that aren’t there. You need to make sure that you act normal at all times and not give away the fact that you may have realised you are being followed. I understand the Wing-Commander has gone through the phone procedure, so that has been dealt with. It would also be useful if you kept an eye out for strangers around here asking questions, or parked cars you don’t recognise.’
‘That will be no problem,’ said Mary, ‘we’ve got Gladys… A lady in the village,’ she explained when Don raised his eyebrows.  ‘She will be our ears and eyes…all second nature to her so all taken care of. Before you go you need to take this.’ She handed him a large envelope.  ‘It’s a copy of the invites list. Bill said you would take it back.’
‘Excellent.  Now, don’t worry about anything. We have backups in place, and once we have identified them, we will have people watching the watchers. I doubt that those involved have any sinister intent, because from what I have been told you are too useful to them. Things will only get difficult if they realise you are working for us. Having said that I need to get going just in case.’ He offered them more fish, which they declined, shook hands with them both, picked up his basket and returned to the van. 
Cynthia watched as he drove out of the gate and turned right towards the pub and shop, followed discreetly, she noticed, by a small green car, which once it had realised his destination, returned and re-parked. ‘They’re not exactly being inconspicuous are they,’ she thought. Although knowing they were there for a second day did make her feel uncomfortable. 
The evening before she, Richard and Mary had decided on Saturday May 27th as the date for the first event. It was far enough ahead to give plenty of notice, the evenings would be getting longer and the temperature, although not hot, would be comfortable enough to go outside. If it rains, then so be it, and we will have to hold it indoors.  Now Don had gone, she returned to her bedroom, and after carrying out the usual procedures, rang Bill.
‘Morning Cynthia. How are things? Don put you right did he?’
‘We’re fine. He explained everything and gave us some fish at the same time. Thanks for that. We told him about a suspicious car parked outside yesterday which incidentally followed Don when he left, but when they saw he was only going to the pub they came back. Good idea to set up the other selling points to divert attention from us.’
‘Yes, don’t worry about the car. Now we’re aware of it we will take note of its intentions. Any chance you could get the car number for us. We can then trace it. The guys inside are really only foot soldiers, but it would be good to know who’s pulling their strings. I’ll have a word with Don when he gets here. He has to hand the van back first and then get the train from Newbury so it shouldn’t take him long. I hope he’s kept some fish for me.’
‘He might not have your kippers, but he does have the list you wanted. Look, the reason I’m contacting you is that we have decided on the 27th May for the first party. We will have to bring in caterers because we have no staff of our own, and besides it will take the pressure off and allow us to mingle and play host. Is that OK with you?’
‘I’ll put it in the diary now, and make sure that Hannah and Jane know. It would be useful if we are there, at least for this one, as we were at Denleigh with you. Don’t worry about sorting out the caterers, or any costs you incur, we will deal with all that. It will give us the opportunity to have some of our people acting as waiters. Surprising what they might pick up. Few people take notice of the staff at these events and let things slip. I’ll let you know about which caterers we’ll use as soon as possible, but we’ll make sure that there is a paper trail in your name, letters invoices etc, with your address on. We will get them sent direct to you with a copy to us. What I’ll also do is transfer funds into your account so you can also pay them direct. All adds to the charade in case anyone gets curious. Can you give me your bank details at some point?’
‘Will do. Is there anything else from your end? We are not sure how many people to invite on the 27th as there are quite a few, so we may make a random choice, unless you tell us otherwise once you’ve seen the list. I’ll give it a few days before I send them out handwritten, more personal according to Mary, and I also need to contact Gerda, but only about the date and her invitees. Does that sound alright with you?’
‘Yes, fine. I’ll be in touch once I’ve seen the list. Until this afternoon.’
‘Hang on, before you go, I’ll give you my account number at Richard’s bank.’ 
Bill rang back after lunch. 
‘Some interesting names on that list aren’t there. Some we know, but others are a surprise. This is looking bigger than we first thought but nothing we can’t handle. Stick to your first plan and take a random sample and then invite the others to another event. Just let me know who is coming to each so we can follow them up. We are not sure how long this will go on for. I don’t want us to be dictated to by the German knitters, if you excuse the pun, but they can’t expect you to do this for long. I would suggest you do two then see what they say. I think they may come back to you with something else. These get togethers may only be a way to test your commitment or perhaps they are genuinely seen as an attempt to get some new members. Whatever the reasons the irony is that they are going to be more useful for us in gaining intelligence, than for them attracting recruits. Personally, I will be very interested to see how they act when they attend the parties themselves. Anything else while I’m here?’
‘No thanks, Mary and I will start on the invitations tomorrow. Oh, one thing, do you think you could get the caterers to contact me, so I know what arrangements I need to make. I am hoping you are only expecting a buffet rather than a full dinner party. A relaxed evening’s event would be much easier to do and allow people to circulate, so perhaps you could tell them that.’
‘Don’t concern yourself, that is exactly what we had in mind. I’ll get them to call you by the end of the week.’
The following day Mary wrote the invitations to 30 people on the list, including some of the knitters, and Cynthia signed them. They were all in the post by late afternoon together with an additional letter sent to Gerda via her husband’s bank with the names of those invitees that were on her list.
On Wednesday, Cynthia got a call from the caterers and together they agreed a menu and accompanying wines for the guests, and an alternative one for the ‘below stairs’ group, the waiting staff and various drivers. This of course did not include wine. 
‘Great,’ said Cynthia to herself, ‘all we need to do now is sit back and wait.’






















