
CHAPTER 19 
By May 15th as requested, all but two of the invited guests had said they would attend. These included Gerda Stammer and Lena Weber from the ‘knitters’ group, although their husbands were unable to come with them because of work commitments. It did occur to Cynthia that the power of this group lay with the wives, rather than their husbands. They seemed to be more fanatical, although it could simply be a case of Hitler hero worship. They would require accommodation but as it was an evening event, they were the only ones who did. Many of the others coming from a distance had made alternative arrangements. Once they had their flight details it was arranged that Richard would collect them from Croydon the afternoon before. 
The green car was still arriving every day to keep watch outside their house, but Cynthia was reassured by the fact that other unknowns in the guise of walkers and cyclists were also appearing in the village at odd times to, ‘watch the watchers’ as Bill had said, and there was always Gladys. 
Cynthia had been in regular contact with the catering team so everything would run smoothly. They arrived promptly on the morning of the 27th in an enclosed lorry containing more outdoor chairs and extra kitchen equipment. As Gerda and Lena were rather in the way, Richard offered to take them to Reading to visit Heelas, the biggest department store in Berkshire, where they could do some shopping and then perhaps see some of the sights. He suggested the ruins of the old Abbey and the formal Forbury Gardens. He dropped them off in Broad St outside the shop with the promise that he would pick them up from the same place at three. 
Fortunately, it was a fine day, which relieved some of the pressure as the grounds were extensive and guests would be able spread out, but still mingle. Cynthia had employed some extra jobbing gardeners during the week to help Pete, her usual one, so the lawns and flower beds looked immaculate so they would certainly be a useful topic of conversation. 
One advantage of Richard taking Gerda and Lena into Reading, was that she didn’t have to provide lunch, which meant she could just concentrate on the evening. She and Mary were basically fiddling about doing small tasks to keep them busy. Although she had no live-in staff, apart from Mary who was more of a friend, she did employ a gardener and a cleaner who came in every morning, so there was really nothing for them to do. They were the ones now getting under the caterers’ feet.  In a way it was a relief when Gerda and Lena returned with Richard and they were able to recount their sightseeing over tea and cake, because it gave her something to do. 
‘What a lovely town,’ said Lena, whose English was surprisingly much improved since their meetings in Berlin. 
‘She had the same strategy as I had,’ thought Cynthia. ‘She was hoping to catch us out when Richard and I were speaking together.’
‘We particularly like the formal gardens, so relaxing to walk through considering how close they are to the centre of town, and the lion statue is so life like. But can you explain the strange name. Is Forbury a person’s name, or is it a building?’
‘Neither really. Did you walk through to the Abbey ruins?’
‘We did, found it very atmospheric.’
‘Well, the word simply means borough in front. The Abbey was one of the largest in the country and the gardens are now on the site of its outer court, which when in use was a meeting place between the monks and the townspeople. For many years it was also the site of a market. The Abbey was destroyed in 1539 on the orders of Henry VIII. But that is a complicated story for some other time.’
‘And the lion?’ asked Gerda.
‘That’s a war memorial, and a rather impressive one, don’t you think? It commemorates soldiers of the local Berkshire regiment who were killed in Afghanistan in the 1880s. I don’t know the specific details, but there may be a book in our library if you want to look it up. Ask Richard when you see him next. There has always been a rumour that the sculptor, a member of a well-known local brewing family, killed himself when he realised he had got the legs in the wrong position, but that’s not true because they are fine and he only died a few years ago. Coincidentally, he has a specific link with the next village. He designed the war memorial on the main road where the road forks. You probably drove past it on your way to Reading this morning.’
‘Fascinating. You do live in a lovely area. How do you put it, picturesque and rustic?’
‘Rural would probably be a better word. Looks good now, but we can get cut off in winter when it snows and those villagers who have to rely on public transport find it difficult to go anywhere. But, as you say it has its compensations, and we have small local shops that cater for most of our needs. Perhaps you would like to have a walk around before the guests start arriving. It won’t take you long.’
‘That’s an excellent idea. We’ll go now while we are in these clothes, and then come back to bathe and change.’
At 6 o’clock three large cars drew up on the front drive and disgorged the waiting staff. Each took a small case from the boots and walked round the house to the back entrance. One of them, a large man of military bearing asked to speak to the ‘lady of the house’ and was taken by one of the catering team to the library. 
‘You asked to see me?’ said Cynthia very politely.
‘Yes Madam. I thought I would make myself known and inform you that we are all here on the Wing Commander’s orders to be your staff for this evening. The others are in the kitchen area changing. I have been asked to act as your butler and also as a master of ceremonies if you would like me to.’ He looked towards the door before adding quietly, ‘We are all military personnel, but have had a crash course. We should know what we are doing but please excuse any basic errors.’
‘You are very welcome, and any mistakes are forgiven in advance.’ she smiled, ‘I don’t need a master of ceremonies, but if you are my butler, what do I call you and what do you normally do when not waiting on tables?’
‘Edwin, madam and I act as sort of minder for Bill. We’ve known each other for a long time. He will be here soon, but we will ignore each other as always. We are also his, and your, observers.’
With the exception of course of Gerda and Lena, the guests started arriving at a politely late 7.40. Pete the gardener was given the unenviable task of getting the cars to park in the right place, certainly not on the lawns, then rather than go through the house, one of the staff guided the guests to a path, that went through a side gate hidden in a large Laurel hedge and into the back garden. Tables, as yet empty, had been set out inside the long glass conservatory running the length of the house which enclosed a very mature grape vine, and chairs had been discreetly placed in small groups around the lawn. All were greeted by Cynthia and Richard and the staff standing next to them were on hand to offer drinks. Some guests she recognised, the Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies’. Having only met his wife, up close Sir John was much smaller and unassertive than Cynthia had imagined when seeing him at a distance at the Adlon, especially as then he was embroiled in a very animated conversation with Hitler. It was obvious from their reactions, that both Gerda and Lena had met some of the guests before, perhaps these were the ones on their list.
Bill arrived at around 8, closely followed by Hannah and Jane who had made a point of travelling separately. Hannah, now in her alter-ego of Miss Gilchrist, was again dressed rather outlandishly and both she and Jane caused quite a stir as they collected their wine and walked onto the lawn arm in arm.  Cynthia smiled and thought to herself ‘What a great double act, if only the guests knew.’
‘Good evening Mr Newton. Very pleased to see you here. How have you been since Denleigh, well I trust.’
‘Kind of you to ask Lady Cynthia. I am very well thankyou. A very nice house you both have here. Had it long?’ 
‘I was born here and inherited it when my parents died, so it’s always been home.’
While talking, they strolled a little further from the house leaving Richard to play host. 
‘Everything OK?’ he asked. ‘You’ve met Edwin and the rest of the team. They seem to be doing an excellent job, although I think Edwin could have done with a larger costume. It does look rather tight.’ They both laughed which gave the impression that they were having a normal relaxed conversation. 
‘There are a couple more of my people here as guests. I won’t point them out.’ He looked over Cynthia’s shoulder. ‘Keep smiling and say anything, the Snowdens are coming over.’
‘Ah, our flying ace,’ said Snowden extending his hand. ‘How are you, old boy?’
‘Well, thank you Colonel. And you?’
‘Likewise. You remember Marjorie,’ reintroducing his wife.
‘Of course. Do you know many people here?’ replied Bill, fishing for information,’ apart from the Denleigh group of course.’
‘We recognise a few, including that frightful Miss Gilchrist. She does like to make an impression doesn’t she. Certainly, likes to be the centre of attention.’
‘Yes,’ said Bill, thinking that when the focus is on Hannah, nobody notices Jane, and she is the one playing the more significant role.
At that point there was a tapping of a small gong and Edwin’s powerful voice rang out over the proceedings. ‘Ladies and gentlemen, silence please, your host would like to say a few words.’
Richard addressed the crowd. ‘Good evening everybody. Cynthia and I would just like to welcome you to this get together. We are all like-minded people here this evening, so please feel free to converse without constraint,’ he smiled, ‘nobody is taking notes, and I can assure you that there are no journalists here ready to pounce and report on what you might say. I would like to introduce you to two important guests, Gerda Stammer and Lena Weber who Cynthia and I had the pleasure of meeting when we visited Berlin recently.’ He pointed them out in the group. ‘I am sure they will have some interesting things to say about the present situation in their country, now that Hitler has taken over. On a more important issue, I understand that food is now available in the conservatory so please feel free to help yourself.’
He looked across at Cynthia who gave him an appreciative nod. 
For the rest of the evening, Gerda and Lena took centre stage. There was always a small group of people surrounding them asking about Germany and how had things changed, and how it would be beneficial for Britain to have the same dynamic leadership. As expected, it was the Colonel’s voice which could be heard above the rest. All this was being overheard by the waiters and waitresses, who were completely ignored by the guests as they went around serving the drinks and offering canapes to those who had not made it to the conservatory. 
When nobody was about Bill called over to Edwin as he was passing. ‘Are you able to breathe in that suit?’ he asked jovially.
‘It is a bit restricting Sir, but needs must for the service on one’s country,’ he retorted with a smile.
‘Seriously, stay acting as the butler in case of wandering eyes, anything so far?’
‘Not as yet, only the conversations we were expecting. I’ve had no reports from the others, beyond the fact that they cannot understand why some of the guests are so arrogant and self-indulgent. A class thing I suppose,’ he winked and offering Bill another drink in role, walked away to another group. 
Cynthia found Richard and extricated him from a very deep philosophical conversation which she could see he was not enjoying.
‘Excuse me, would you mind if I borrowed my husband for a minute?’ She put her arm through his and ambled across the lawn. ‘What do you think?’
‘As a party it’s going well, but many of them would not be my first choice of guests. Some of them are very tiresome but I am sure Gerda and Lena will be able to attract some recruits this evening. I’ve noticed a few business cards being exchanged. Incidentally, Gerda is over there by the lake, but I haven’t seen Lena for a while. Have you?’
‘No, now you come to mention it I haven’t. I wonder where she is, I suppose we need to wander around and mingle. Come on.’
As they were about to move off, Mary arrived and with a relaxed voice said very quietly ‘I thought you should know that I have just seen Lena Weber and Marjorie Snowden coming out of the office. Not sure what they were doing in there. They didn’t see me. They would certainly not have found anything untoward or incriminating, but it does make you wonder what they were looking for.’
‘How annoying. They’ve taken their chance while we are all out here. It’s the first time since they arrived that they’ve had the opportunity to snoop. Can you have a quiet word with Bill please? If I talk to him again, people may suspect. In the meantime, I will tell Hannah and Jane. I haven’t spoken to them all evening so I have a good excuse.’
While Mary went off to tell Bill, Cynthia found Hannah listening a small group praising the qualities of Mosley. ‘Can I have a quiet word please?’ and taking her to one side, ‘Mary has seen Lena and Marjorie coming out of my office.’
Hannah replied in role ‘Indeed,’ she said rather haughtily for the benefit of the others, ‘I would love to walk around the garden,’ she turned to the others, ‘Please excuse me. I have a great interest in gardening and I really must discuss some of the planting with Lady Cynthia before it gets too dark.’ 
As she took two glasses of wine from one of the waiters, she said to him, ‘Can you ask Edwin not to make it obvious, but can he bring a tray of something and find us in the garden? We’ll be over there, not too far away.’
‘Yes Madam, I’ll get some food to you immediately.’ 
A few minutes later, as Cynthia and Hannah were genuinely talking about the plants, Edwin arrived with a salver of food and some wine. ‘Your food Madam, and I took the liberty of bringing an additional bottle of wine’.
‘Thank you.’ Hannah said in a loud voice, then more quietly. ‘We don’t have long because ‘you need to stay in role’. She then explained what had happened. ‘I think we may need to keep an eye on Gerda. They are certainly acting as a pair and as Lena found nothing in the office, she may search elsewhere. Can you get the team to keep a close eye on them in particular and also Louise Harrington and Megan Davies, they may be in on this as well? Richard or Bill will point them out to you. Don’t do anything just watch.’
‘Thankyou Madam. Will that be all?’
‘Yes,’ replied Cynthia. ‘Edwin, thank you very much for your help this evening. We have to endure another one of these, but I hope we can call upon the services of your team again.’
‘It would be a great pleasure Madam. May I suggest we begin tidying up, time is getting on, and it might prompt some of the guests to depart.’
‘Excellent idea, to be honest I have had enough of being diplomatic.’ Hannah nodded in agreement. ‘I think we will start the ball rolling. I’ll collect Jane and we will take our leave. We will need a debrief at some point, but I will leave that to Bill to arrange. He’s coming across now with Richard. See you soon,’ and she wandered off to find Jane.
Bill made a point of making a formal farewell for the sake of those watching.
‘Lady Cynthia, Richard, many thanks for inviting me this evening. Most enjoyable. I will write to you soon to express my thanks and hopefully we will meet again soon.’ He gave a slight nod and walked away.
Many of the others took the hint of their departures, and the clearing of plates and glasses, and decided to go as well. All came to express their thanks for the hospitality, made their way to the cars and drove off through the dark country lanes. There were a few who, in truth, should not have been driving, but that was not her problem thought Cynthia. By 11.30 only the hard core remained.  The Davies had gone, but the Harringtons and Snowdens remained with Gera and Lena.
‘May I commend you on an excellent evening Lady Cynthia,’ said the Colonel. The way he pronounced Cynthia gave away the fact that he had drunk too much. ‘I understand from Gerda that you are going to hold another one, so hopefully we might be invited again. We met some very interesting people who I will make a point of keeping in contact with. Marjorie, are you ready to go home? It is getting late and we have a distance to travel.’
‘That’s not true, thought Cynthia, because I know where you live.’ 
Marjorie turned to Gerda and Lena. ‘It was a great pleasure to see you again and I am pleased that you can stay a little longer. We will see you tomorrow.’
Cynthia experienced a moment of panic. It had already been arranged that Richard would drive them back to Croydon after breakfast, surely they didn’t have to entertain them for another day!’
Gerda looked at Richard, ‘Peter and Marjorie have invited us to stay with them for a couple of extra days so we can spend some time in London shopping with Marjorie and Louise. We’ll reorganise our flight home, so many thanks for the offer Richard, but we won’t need a lift to the airport tomorrow. Peter will pick us up at 10.00, we hope you don’t mind.’
Cynthia breathed a sigh of relief. 
‘Not at all.’ said Richard ‘we will see you at breakfast.’
Edwin came towards them. ‘Excuse me Madam. We have boxed up all the remaining food and wine and left it in the kitchen and we will take the washing up with us. If it is convenient for you, we will return for the chairs tomorrow afternoon.’
‘That will fine. Can you come to the office with me, I have something for your team? She turned to the others. ‘Please excuse me a moment.’
When inside Cynthia took some cash from a small locked box on one of the bookshelves and handed it to Edwin. ‘I know you’re being paid for this evening, but this is a little thankyou from us. I will leave it to you to divide up.’ 
‘That is very kind of you. I will make sure it is shared fairly.’
She looked out of the window to make sure that the others were still on the lawn. ‘Another thing, can you tell Bill that Gerda and Lena are not leaving tomorrow, they are going to stay a few extra days with the Snowdens. I realise it’s Sunday, but I will be here in the afternoon if he wants to call me.’
‘I have a better idea,’ said Edwin, ‘if he is free why don’t I bring him down in the lorry when I come back to collect the chairs.’
‘Even better’, she said.
While Cynthia returned to the others Edwin gathered up his team and left. As she got to the group they too were on the point of departing. 
‘We are off to bed’, said Lena. ‘See you at breakfast.’
“Thank you again. Until the next time.’
‘Yes, until the next time.’ Cynthia replied with a forced smile.






