
CHAPTER 20
When Gerda and Lena sat down for breakfast the following day, Richard was just leaving.
‘My apologies ladies. As I no longer have to give you lift, I can have my regular golf game with my friends this morning, so must dash. I’m being picked up in a couple of minutes. It was good to see you again. Until the next time.’ He rose, shook hands with them both, gave Cynthia a kiss on the cheek, and went to collect his clubs. 
Cynthia asked them how they thought the evening had gone. 
‘Extremely well,’ Lena replied, ‘better than we expected, there were many people who were very keen on learning more and some asked how they can help. Of course, there were one or two who were sceptical, but we would expect that. We have gone through such difficult times over the past few years, something that you have been shielded from here.’ 
Cynthia wanted to say, ‘If I were you I wouldn’t make that statement to the miners, or the Jarrow marchers and all the others who suffered in the depression,’ but instead was very diplomatic and said, ‘We’ve had our fair share you know.’
‘Some of your guests found our passion for change difficult to understand, but now we have Hitler in place we have a chance of succeeding. You may have read that he has already banned the Communist party and the Trade Unions, and strikes are no longer allowed, so that’s a start.’
Cynthia wanted to bring her down from her soap box. ‘So, where do we go from here?’
‘As we already know them, we will discuss the next steps with the Harringtons and Snowdens then get back to you, but in the meantime, if you are still willing, we would like you to organise another similar event with a different group of people. You have the right environment, a large house, extensive grounds, and you are reasonably isolated. I thought the guests responded well last night to Richard’s suggestion that they could talk freely. They certainly relaxed knowing that they could speak their minds without fear of censure. One request, please don’t invite that frightful woman with the monocle who dresses like a man. I cannot take her seriously, and although she may be an adherent, I am not sure her image will do our cause any good.’
‘I’m sure that can be arranged,’ said Cynthia knowing that Hannah would still be there, but in a different disguise. ‘Will you both be coming again?’
‘We would like to if possible,’ replied Gerda, I realise that you were unable to invite all the people on our list, but as it happened it worked out well, thirty or so seems to be the right number, so perhaps they could come next time. We will leave you to set a date and make the arrangements. I have to say it has been a most pleasant and useful weekend. Now, if you will excuse us, we need to pack our things and be ready for Peter.’
They both rose and left Cynthia to finish her breakfast.
Peter arrived promptly on the stroke of ten. Conveyed his thanks to Cynthia for the previous evening, escorted the ladies to the car and drove away.
Cynthia went into the library to join Mary and slumped into the chair. ‘Thank goodness that’s over.’
‘The only problem is that we will have to go through it all again. I still don’t understand why Lena and the other woman…’
‘Marjorie,’ interrupted Cynthia.
‘Marjorie, why they were in the office. What were they looking for?’
‘I have no idea, but it is a good thing that everything we did for the party was above board. There was nothing to suggest that anyone else was involved in any way. Bill’s coming this afternoon, so we’ll ask him.’ She looked at her watch. ‘I need to get some biscuits, so I’ll go over to the shop before Gladys closes and goes off to church. I’m not going this morning, too tired.’
The little bell over the top of the door jingled as Cynthia entered the shop. 
‘Morning Gladys, can I have a pound of decent biscuits please.’
Gladys took a few scoopfuls from a series of glass topped tins aligned in front of the counter and placed them in a paper bag. 
‘Did you have a good party last night?’ she asked, ‘we saw all the people arriving. A couple of your guests came in here yesterday afternoon asking about you. They had funny accents, so not sure where they came from.’
‘They live in Berlin, in Germany. What did they want to know?’
‘Odd really. Had I known you for long? Since you were a baby I said. What did you do? I presumed they meant for a job, so I put them right and told them ladies like you don’t work as such but do a lot for the village and charities and the like. Then strangest of all, had I seen more visitors than usual going to your house over the past few weeks. No, I said, you weren’t a one for entertaining a lot, and you’ve always liked your privacy since you were a child. There was something else,’ she paused to remember. ‘Yes, they wanted to know if you were a lady, why wasn’t Richard a Lord. I told them it was yours by right. They were very nosey. They seemed to be checking up on you.  I hope what I said was OK?’
‘Very OK Gladys, many thanks.’
‘Have you noticed our friends are not here this morning?’ Gladys nodded towards the window, ‘perhaps they have Sunday off.’
She was right, the car wasn’t there. ‘I wonder why,’ thought Cynthia, she’d got quite used to it.
‘Thanks for the biscuits. Keep looking out for strangers,’ she said with a smile.
Edwin returned in the afternoon to collect up the chairs and kitchen paraphernalia. After which he joined Bill, who had travelled with him disguised in a khaki coloured dust coat, Cynthia and Mary in the conservatory. She told them about her conversation with Gladys.
‘That’s peculiar. I wonder why they want to know so much about you. I can understand idle interest, but why question your social and domestic life. If anyone else comes around asking questions, I would have thought the shop or the pub will be the obvious places they’d try, so I think you should prime Gladys to give them misleading answers. You can always tell her you are protecting your privacy.’
Incidentally, on the way here I had a thought about the intrusion in your office last night.  We may have been looking at it from the wrong end, bear with me a second.’ He left and went into the office.
He returned almost immediately, ‘Can you come with me, but when we go in, don’t say a word. I’ll explain after.’ As they entered the room Bill mimed to Cynthia to pick up the phone.
She did and heard a distinct click on the line.
He beckoned them to follow him to the conservatory. 
‘They weren’t taking anything out, they were putting something in, they’ve put a bug in the phone so someone, somewhere can listen to your conversations. Good job we took the precaution of the other line.’
‘Why the pantomime?’ ask Mary.
‘I can’t be sure that they’ve not placed others in the room. They could easily be put behind the books. I’m certain they wouldn’t have had the time to do it, but I’m just being careful. No need to worry. Now we know it’s there we can make use of it ourselves. All you need to do is remember to make official calls from upstairs, I’ll check that one in a minute if I may, actually, Edwin could you go and have a look, and always use the office one for the run of the mill stuff. Same with conversations. Come into here if you want to talk about the operation not in the office.’
Edwin returned. ‘The other one’s alright to use.’
‘Good, all of this does raise an interesting question. I can see why they are wanting information on you because they need to know your commitment and that you’re not working for someone else, like us. But all of this must be arranged from here, so who is behind it. I’ll need to do some digging.’
‘By the way,’ said Cynthia, ‘did you notice that the car has gone?’
‘No, but there could be a simple explanation for that, first, you may have passed some sort of test last night and they were happy with what you did; second, there is no need for the car to be on site anymore, now that the phone has been tapped. I presume they asked you to arrange another party.’
‘Yes, they want to meet the other people who were unable to come.’
‘Good, from our point of view last night was very successful. We already knew some of them, but we were able to add more to our list. Edwin, did the team pick up anything useful?’
‘Not really, most of the chat was political, but from what we overheard, nothing seemed particularly controversial. However, over the evening we did get a fair idea of who was directing the conversations.  For instance, did you notice that the Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies’ did not remain as pairs, but attached themselves to various groups. They are obviously the leading lights in all of this, and I think it’s significant that our German friends are staying on. I wouldn’t mind betting that all eight of them will be meeting up somewhere.
Bill, if you don’t mind me making a personal observation, from my own experience in the service, the Colonel is not as opinionated or overbearing as he seems. There is no doubt that he is involved in the cause and is highly motivated, but I think some of his statements are made purely to get a reaction. He seems to be assessing people by their responses. 
Incidentally, be aware next time that he is not as drunk as he makes out to be, he was seen pouring some of his wine into nearby pot plants. He is not the buffoon he wants us to believe he is, so I think we should monitor him closely.’
‘Thanks Edwin, that’s very useful. Do you think we should put someone on Snowden or give him space?’
‘Whoever follows him would have to be very good, because I think he could spot a tail a mile off. We know the circles he mixes in and his political agenda, so I would give him free rein. We can always pick him up if we need to.’
‘OK, I’ll go along with that. So, Cynthia, when shall we have the next party. You obviously enjoyed last night’s so much we really must do it again,’ he remarked in a satirical voice. 
Both Cynthia and Mary frowned. ‘Loved every minute of it didn’t we Mary. I’m in no hurry for the next one, but it is really up to you. We can either do it in the summer or wait until next Spring. Many on the list may be going away in July, August and if we leave it any later the nights will be drawing in, and frankly I would prefer to have it outside if possible.’
‘That would suit us. If the knitters complain, come up with some excuse. You are controlling this now, not them. Sort out a date and we’ll work around it, meanwhile we’ll do some background checks on those on our new list. By the way, did you spot our agents?’
‘No, did they come on their own, or as a pair?’
‘Not saying but they obviously did their job well,’ he said, smiling at Edwin.
‘One thing before I forget. I have been asked not to invite ‘that frightful Miss Gilchrist’ quote. They don’t like her, or what she might represent. Hannah may have to give some thought to a new persona. That should be fun. I’ll sort out the date and let you and Gerda know.’
‘We’ll be in touch,’ said Bill as he rose to leave, ‘don’t forget about the phones. Come on Edwin, back to the city, although I much prefer it out here.’
 










