
CHAPTER 21
Richard and Cynthia both agreed that they would stick to their plan of not offering to host another party until early summer the following year. Her argument of short nights getting chillier was sound and there were various reasons they could not have it in early Spring, and for the first time in a while, they had been invited to Royal Ascot during the third week in June. As a result, they decided on July 7th. 

However, by the time the next party came around, much had changed both in Britain, and in Europe which would have a bearing not only on the guest list, but also the discussions.
Significantly, in August 1933, after some of his New Party public meetings had been disrupted, Oswald Mosley had established the 300 strong Fascist Defence Force, a paramilitary section of his British Union of Fascists. They wore distinctive black shirts modelled on Mosley’s fencing jacket and were based in Black House on the Kings Road, Chelsea. Their insignia was a flash of lightning in a circle, representing ‘action within unity’. When Mosley was giving speeches, he was often flanked by members of what he called the ‘I Squad’ a small elite group which acted as his bodyguard. They had the same uniform but with leather breeches and high boots. 
Although Cynthia had not seen them personally, she had heard reports from her friends about the intimidating way they would march through various cities and were often involved with violent confrontations and riots, especially with Communist and Jewish groups in London. It was all very much modelled on the Italian Fascists, however, unlike their Italian counterparts, the FDF and the British Union of Fascists were not as popular and after a large rally at Olympia on June 7th 1934 when his bodyguards over-zealous violence created a great deal of bad publicity the membership declined, although Mosley himself remained leader of the  depleted party.  Both Richard and Cynthia wondered how these events would have affected the Denleigh Group. Were they still supporting what looked increasingly like a lost cause? They would soon find out. What Mosley didn’t realise was that in early 1934 Bill and his colleagues, together with Special Branch, had planted agents in the organisation and had been monitoring his communications.  They were worried that his oratory skills might attract enough financial support for it to become a powerful political force. The information they were able to gather meant that Bill had more knowledge of some of the people on her July guest list.
While the BUF was in decline in the UK the opposite was happening in Germany.
In October 1933, Hitler had withdrawn Germany from the League of Nations and over the next few months illegally trebled the size of the German army and ignored the weapons and materiel restrictions imposed by the Treaty of Versailles.  He was also set on consolidating his power and settling old scores, so over three days in the week just before Cynthia’s do, Hitler disposed of all his rivals within his own party, including Ernst Rohm the head of the SA. Although officially called Operation Hummingbird, it became known as the Night of the Long Knives.  Hitler now ruled supreme, which must have delighted Gerda and the rest of the knitters. In effect he now had no opposition and the full support of the military. 

Cynthia and Richard had a rather normal winter. Richard travelled up to London each day, and Cynthia spent more time planning areas of the garden that needed to be developed in the coming seasons and used the opportunity to prune some of the smaller trees. They were cut off completely from civilisation in January because of heavy snow, but it was a common occurrence in winter, and they were used to it. As there were no routes out of the village without going down a steep hill, traveling was hazardous on the icy roads. They kept in contact with Bill and received the odd letter from Gerda, via the bank. Now Gerda knew where they lived, Cynthia was surprised she didn’t contact her direct as she had before.
The pressure began to mount in early May when Bill rang early one Sunday morning. 
‘Morning Cynthia, sorry to call at the weekend, but I need to talk to you urgently before you start planning the party. I don’t want to put you out, but would it be possible for you to come to London? It’s to do with something that I would not want to discuss on the phone, even a secure one. Are you both free on Tuesday? I presume Richard will be at work, so perhaps he could excuse himself for an hour and travel across town to our new offices at Thames House on Millbank. Can we say 11 am?  But for reasons that will become clear I would like you to meet Hannah separately at the Ritz at the same time. The discussion will be the same, I just don’t want you coming together.’
‘Let me have a word with Richard, he’s just about to go to golf so I need to catch him. I’ll ring you back.’
Richard was in the process of putting his clubs in the car, when she caught up with him and relayed Bill’s conversation.
‘That’s a little odd, don’t you think? Why all the cloak and dagger stuff? Tell him I’ll be there at 11.’ 
Cynthia returned to her bedroom and rang Bill.
‘That will be fine.  Richard will come from work and I’ll come up by train.’
‘Please take extra care. I won’t tell you how I know, but there seems to be a lot of increased interest in you and your parties. They don’t seem to have picked up on Richard, which is why I am happy for him to come here, but all the attention seems to be focused on you. When you come up on Tuesday you may be followed. Don’t worry about it, because we will be watching you as well. Rather than take a taxi from Paddington, could you take the underground, it will give our people more chance to spot them. Hannah will explain when you see her.’
‘Sounds fun. I know Green Park tube is probably closer, but I’ll take the Bakerloo Line and walk from Piccadilly station, saves me changing trains. Although, if you wanted to pick up any followers, I could easily walk across Hyde Park to the Wellington Arch and up Piccadilly. Don’t mind either way.’
‘Actually, the latter sounds good. If you could leave the station and turn right on Sussex Gardens to Lancaster Gate, we’ll have others follow you from there. As usual, don’t look for them, you won’t see them. Incidentally, don’t show any surprise when you see Hannah, I’m not saying any more,’ he laughed.
Cynthia travelled up on the Tuesday and as arranged walked across Hyde Park from the Italian Gardens and up Piccadilly to the Ritz. Built in 1906 by Cesar Ritz, it was a venue she had not visited for some years when it was more like a club than a hotel and graced by film stars and celebrities. She entered the Palm Court, a magnificent cream coloured room decorated in the style of Louis XVI with lavish furnishings, gilded armchairs and large windows at either end. There was also a marble fountain displaying a gold-coloured nymph in a lair and known as La Source. A waited approached her and asked if she had a reservation.
‘I am meeting Miss Hannah Park.’ she said. 
‘Please follow me Madam.’
He led her across the room to a table for two where Hannah was already seated.  What a transformation, she was almost unrecognisable. Gone was the short dark hair to be replaced by long blonde ringlets which cascaded over her shoulders. She was dressed in a very elegant summer jacket and blouse and wore a large diamond pendant around her neck. She certainly looked the part, and although smart herself, Cynthia felt distinctly underdressed. 
‘Do you like it?’ asked Hannah. ‘I have to be honest it’s not the usual way I dress, but I could get used to it. It’s not just for show, it is serving a purpose. I did not want you to be seen with Miss Gilchrist, especially as you have been tailed. Don’t look, but you were followed in by a couple we both know; the Snowdens. They have a table for four so may be expecting others. It will be interesting to see if they make themselves known, but I think it is more likely that they are watching you. Good job I made the effort,’ she smiled, ‘Morning coffee alright with you?’
She beckoned the waiter and asked for coffee and biscuits.
‘Now this may sound a bit odd and far-fetched, but we wanted to get your opinion before we go any further. Incidentally, Bill is asking Richard exactly the same question, we didn’t want you to be together as it could look a little suspicious. You are at perfectly liberty to say no, but we would like you to invite Mosley to your party in July. The reason being, that we think this will bring more people out into the open and it will give us a very good indication of who his really serious supporters are among your guests. He may also be of interest to our German friends. At the same time his rants, if you can put up with them, may dissuade some others from supporting him, especially as his political star seems to be waning. The reason we wanted to ask you first is because there is a distinct downside to this. He will undoubtedly want centre stage and he will most certainly use it as some propaganda exercise. He will also come with one or two attendants. We would have to keep the whole visit very quiet, because we do not want the press or his opponents to know. We are aware from one of our insiders that your last event came up in conversation at a recent BUF dinner, so you are known to him and hence the increased interest in you personally.’
There was a pause as the coffee tray was placed on the table with an array of accompanying cake-like biscuits.
‘Oh dear, that sounds a bit worrying. Would we have any support people there on the night, apart from yourselves and the catering team, in case of trouble?’
‘Yes, security will be very tight, and he will probably arrive in one of the black windowed vehicles that he has at his disposal, so he shouldn’t be seen arriving or leaving. Incidentally, the Snowdens have guests who I don’t recognise. Are you able to see without being noticed?’
Cynthia dropped her linen napkin on the floor and as she bent down to retrieve it glanced across the room. ‘I do,’ she said ‘they are both members of the knitters. Keep talking while I remember their names.’
‘We realise that this is an imposition, but we think it will be a useful ploy. If you agree we will need to work out a way of getting an invitation to him and how we word it.  Leave that with us.
‘I’ve remembered they are Monika Fischer and Karen Becker. Now that is interesting. The Harringtons were in Berlin when we were there, but as far as I know the Snowdens weren’t. How do they know each other?’






















