
CHAPTER 22
‘I don’t think the Snowdens were following you, they were here to meet the others. It may be just coincidence, but I will report back to Bill anyway. Do you have any further questions about our suggestion?’
‘No, I’ll discuss it with Richard when I get home, but I can’t see there being a problem. I’d better be getting back. Got to give the watchers something to do. I wonder if I can get out without been seen.’ She nodded towards the Snowdens. ‘I’ll give you a ring later this evening. By the way, did you know that Noel Coward is sitting behind you? Just thought I’d mention it.’
‘Really! OK, you go while I get the bill. The department’s paying for this. Have a good journey home. Our people will pick you up outside and trail you to Paddington. I presume you’re walking back.’
‘Yes, too nice a day to be sitting on the underground.’
Cynthia turned away from the Snowdens and walked out of the hotel and made her way to the station and home. If she was being followed, she couldn’t tell.
That evening she and Richard agreed that they really had no other option but to invite Mosley and his cronies, so Cynthia rang and informed Bill.
‘I’ll get back to you with all the arrangements. We’ll sort out the invitation, but it will seem to be coming from you so he, or more likely his secretary, will contact you direct. I wouldn’t think he would turn down an opportunity to have a platform as it were. Speak soon.’
Mary sent out the invitations at the end of the month, same timings, same format but there was no mention of Mosley attending. Although she invited Gerda and Lena, she did not ask them to send a list of other guests, because there would be enough already. Although, on Cynthia’s suggestion Mary did say that a couple more of the knitters could attend if they wanted to. 
Both Richard and Cynthia tried to ignore the press reporting of the BUF actions because it made them increasingly anxious, so they immersed themselves in their normal work routines. They did however have a very successful day at Royal Ascot where they backed the Aga Khan owned winner, Felicitation in the Gold Cup, ridden by Gordon Richards at 9/2. 
Within the week, many of the guests had responded and Gerda and Lena had said that they would be staying with the Snowdens again, the excuse being that it would take some of the pressure of Cynthia, and Richard would not need to meet them, and many thanks for the extra invitations, but it would only be the two of them again. It certainly helped, as there would be nobody staying in the house, the hospitality was now confined to the Saturday evening.
It wasn’t until the end of June, after the BUF debacle at Olympia that Mosley’s secretary, as predicted, sent them a letter of acceptance. His wife had died the year before so he would be attending on his own with two bodyguards.
As July 7th got closer, Cynthia in particular became more nervous. Every time she went out now, even in the car, she thought she was being followed, a belief which to some extent was confirmed by Gladys.
‘Have you noticed that there seems to be a lot of strangers about recently’ she asked Cynthia when she was next in the shop. ‘Are you having another one of your get-togethers like last year?’
‘Yes, on the 7th of next month. Hopefully, we won’t disturb anybody.’
‘It certainly won’t bother me. I am usually dead to the world by 9.30.’
The routine on the day was exactly the same as the first one. The caterers were the first to arrive mid-morning, then extra chairs were brought by lorry before lunch and Edwin arrived with his team mid-afternoon, a little earlier than usual because he wanted to check the security. As the house was in a remote location, he did not expect any gate-crashers, but Mosley tended to attract undesirables so there was always the possibility of something untoward happening.
Guests started arriving at 7.30 to be greeted by Cynthia and Richard and the customary two waiters with drinks trays. In order to make it simpler there was no food in the conservatory this time, it was all going to be canapes served by the team with the idea that they might be in a better position to overhear conversations and react to any unrest should there be any. 
Mosley and his minders did not arrive until after eight, by which time he was able to make an entrance, although quietly as he was deliberately not announced. He was not in his uniform but dressed in a light grey suit. His minders, however, were in their usual black attire, complete with leather boots and side buttoned jackets. They were very intimidating made more so, by their size. They were both over six foot tall and well-muscled. 
Mosley himself was rather condescending in his manner. ‘Lady Cynthia, it is a great pleasure to meet you,’ taking and kissing her hand. ‘I have heard so much about your support for the cause. It is always heartening to welcome new members. I understand that you have met Hitler. That must have been an amazing experience for you. I have never had that pleasure, although I have met with Mussolini and I was very impressed by the way he gets things done in Italy.’
‘I only saw him across a crowded room, but he certainly had an effect on the gathering. There is a presence about him which I am sure some find intoxicating.’
‘Do you agree that we should adopt the same social policies, here? This country has great need of a party that offers something new, don’t you think? We need to rid ourselves of the Jewish menace which is undermining our social fabric.’ 
Cynthia blanched at such a blatant statement and she hoped her reactions and anger did not show or was noticeable in her voice. She was keen to get off the topic and talk about something less contentious, but she realised quite quickly that it was going to be nigh on impossible. Instead she relied on diversionary tactics.
‘Let me introduce you to some of the other guests, especially those who have made the trip from Germany. I’m sure they will be very keen to meet you.’
She led him across the lawn, minders in tow, and presented him to Gerda and Lena, who as Cynthia predicted, were ecstatic to be in the presence of such a well-known celebrity.
‘If you don’t mind Sir Oswald, I have a few things to attend to. Gerda and Lena will look after you.’
Cynthia went off in search of Bill, Jane and Hannah, who was intentionally keeping her distance from the others and as yet had not been recognised as ‘that intolerable Miss Gilchrist’.
‘That man is insufferable,’ she said, barely controlling her anger. ‘What gives him the right to talk like that? He’s only been here five minutes.
‘Unfortunately, a mixture of his ego, perceived power and his minders,’ said Bill. ‘I am quite happy for him to sound off about his views and policies as long as he does it one-to-one or in small groups. What we must not do is allow him to address the whole group and turn this into a political rally. We are more interested in those around him. Edwin and the others are keeping a close eye on him, and the individuals who are making sure they are noticed and, unsurprisingly, it would seem that our usual friends are keen to get his attention. The Snowdens are having a long conversation with him over something. Stay alert, they are coming over here. Best if I leave you to it. I have never met him, but I think it best that I stay out of his way in case our paths cross in the future. I’ll find Richard and get him to join you.’
‘Lady Cynthia,’ said Mosley in a patronising way. ‘I wonder if we might have a word with you.  I have been speaking to Peter and Marjorie here, actually we go back some way. Marjorie was a friend of my late wife. Coincidentally, she was Cynthia as well. They have been telling me how you have supported us over the past year in arranging these events to bring our ideology to a wider audience. I wonder if I might prevail upon you to offer one service which could be of great importance were we to either align with Germany and Italy or if we had to go to war with them again because of our present intransigent narrow minded politicians. Is it alright to talk here, or would you prefer somewhere more private?’
The thought of being alone with these three ‘somewhere private’ did not enthral her.
‘No, this will be fine. We can at least see if anyone else is approaching us.’ Coincidentally at that point Richard arrived.
‘Good evening all. We haven’t met, have we?’ extending his hand towards Mosley. ‘Am I interrupting anything?’
‘No, I was about to explain something to Lady Cynthia, but this actually concerns you as well.  I’ll get straight to the point. We have been, let’s say, keeping an eye on you for a while. 
‘That accounts for the followers,’ she thought, 
‘and it is apparent from the reports we’ve received is that your interest in our cause is genuine. As I said earlier, Peter and Marjorie and the Harringtons, all speak very highly of you.  So, in the event of any need arising, we would like you consider acting as a safe house for an agent, or agents coming into the country who might be in need of somewhere to hide? We have already established one or two, either through the support of Peter and Marjorie or through our known contacts in Germany so you would be one of many and may never be called upon at all. However, it is always good to have more than we might need. Think of it in the same way as hiding Catholic priests during Elizabeth’s time.’
Her first reaction was to tell him something rude, but then remembered that this was the whole point of the trip to Berlin and the parties. So, she made an attempt to lighten the conversation and at the same time calm herself down.
‘I come from long line of Protestants so I don’t think my predecessors would have been doing that, in fact I would suggest they would have done the opposite.’ She made an attempt at a smile, but she was far from jovial. This man was basically asking her to commit treason by harbouring enemy agents, were they to become the enemy of course. However, setting her personal feelings aside, they had at least been successful in drawing him and his close devotees ‘out’ which Bill had asked them to do at their very first meeting.
Richard was aware of the almost imperceptible change in Cynthia’s body language and interjected before she said anything she might have regretted later. ‘Do you want an answer now, or can we have some time to think about it? You are asking a lot of us and it is not something we can agree to on the spur of the moment.’
‘I quite understand. There is no immediate hurry, but it will be good to know one way or the other. It might be difficult to get hold of me direct, so may I suggest you use Peter as a go-between. If you excuse me, I will mingle for a while before quietly taking my leave. Thank you for a very pleasant evening. I hope to hear from you soon.’ He nodded to them both and left them with the Snowdens.
‘An amazing man isn’t he?’ said Marjorie. Almost exactly the same sentiments that the knitters had expressed in the Adlon about Hitler.
Cynthia was very non-committal. ‘He is certainly very interesting. You need to give me your phone number before you leave so we can give you our answer. In fact, a better idea, give it to Mary.’ She strode off, not really wanting to have any more to do with them for the rest of the evening. She went in search of Hannah and Bill, surprisingly she found the latter having a conversation with Louise who, when she walked up to them, drifted away. Bill was mumbling to himself as if concerned over something.
Cynthia brought him back to reality. ‘Well it worked. He wants us to act as a safe house, but more importantly you now know that the Snowdens and Harringtons have a serious part to play in all of this. Something we’ve all suspected, but good to have it confirmed.’ She looked over Bill’s shoulder to see Mosley and his entourage leaving by the gate in the hedge. ‘I am to contact him via the Colonel.’ 
‘Well done. I realise it wasn’t easy for you this evening, but you did it well. We can now step up our monitoring of those here tonight. I’ll discuss this with Edwin on Monday. I don’t think we can do anymore at present. In my opinion there is no need for any more parties, unless you want to continue,’ he said with a smile.
‘No thanks, I’ve had enough of pandering to these people. I will of course keep up the pretence. I presume you want us to agree to his suggestion.’
‘Of course,’ replied Hannah. ‘For the first time since we started this, we are now in control. We are the ones able to dictate, no pun intended, how this will progress, because all the people here are still unaware of the department’s involvement and our ability to keep a very close watch on their movement and contacts. We simply wait to see what happens next.
In the event, not a great deal happened at all for a long time. 



























