
CHAPTER 23
After the July party, Mosley’s power and political influence was mainly in decline. He continued to speak vehemently on Anti-semitism, which led to increased violence on the streets, culminating in what became known as the Battle of Cable Street in October 1936. 
The BUF tried to campaign in an area of the Eastend of London where many of the residents were Jewish. Protesters successfully blocked the march and after the intervention of the Police Commissioner, Mosley was forced to abandon it.  Bill and his team kept a close eye on all that was happening in terms of possible influence from Europe but there did not seem to be any links. However, in December 1936, in response to such unrest, the Government introduced the Public Order Act, which banned political uniforms and violence something which had been witnessed, not only on the streets in London, but also on the news films screened in British cinemas showing the intimidation carried out in Germany by the uniformed SA.
Strangely, although designed to curb the party, for a while the Act had the opposite effect. As the violent element had seemingly been removed more people joined its ranks. Although the likes of the Harringtons and Snowdens, and many of the others who had attended Cynthia’s parties wanted to see strong leadership, the bullying tactics of the BUF had never appealed to their middle-class sensibilities. Encouraged by this new wave of popularity the BUF continued to put up candidates for various public elections, including the London County Council in 1937 and a couple of by-elections with the manifesto ‘Mind Britain’s Business’ which again appealed to the middle-classes, but with no success. 
Mosley himself remained popular with his followers to the extent that his ‘Britain First’ rally at Earls on July 16th, 1939 attracted 30000 delegates and was the largest political assembly in British History. Cynthia had received a personal invitation from the Harringtons to accompany them but had declined citing a previous engagement, her birthday.  In reality, having seen Hitler on the newsreels, the thought of listening to a similar lengthy dogmatic, demonic, diatribe appalled her. 
Apart from the offer to join them, Cynthia had still not been contacted by the group on any matter of importance. To some extent they had gone underground as their desire for a National Socialist state in Britain was no longer looking likely. The general mood of the population was now very much against it. More emphasis was being placed on a British spirit which did not need the likes of Mosley and the BUF. 
When war started in September 1939, just a couple of months after the Earls Court event, Mosley led a campaign for a negotiated peace with Germany, to be brokered by the Italians. A cause taken up less publicly by others such as Lord Halifax.  By now the authorities were losing patience with him. Mosley had been tolerated by the establishment for a long time, and although Bill and his colleagues had prior knowledge of what his plans were, because of infiltration and phone taps, on the 23rd May 1940 they had had enough. His oratory was now considered too dangerous to be given a public platform so, along with others, he was interned under the Defence Regulations 18B. The BUF ceased to exist as a political force and was proscribed later in the year.
Mosley was never charged with any offence but spent the next three years living with his second wife in a house in Holloway Prison until his controversial release in 1943. Politically, he was a spent figure. It was left to the likes of the Snowdens, Harringtons, the Davies’ and their other contacts to continue their fifth column activities without him as a figure head. Unbeknownst to Cynthia, but not Bill, the Snowdens in particular had strengthened links with their German counterparts over time, and to Hitler, whose rise to power since the July party had seen the map of Europe change.
While the BUF and Mosley had been losing their influence, Hitler had taken a firm grip on power.  In July 1934, after the death of Hindenburg, he became Fuehrer and Reich Chancellor. In 1935 he began unravelling the terms of the Versailles Treaty by re-arming and introducing conscription. In 1936 he managed to circumvent the problems of not being allowed an air force by sending German aircraft, as the Condor Squadron, to help Franco in the Spanish civil war and two years later, in 1938, he used his new-found popularity, backed by his propaganda machine and the military, to regain some of the lost territories. In March, the Austrian Chancellor, Kurt von Schuschnigg, proclaimed a union with Germany, the Anschluss. In September, the World War 1 allies agreed in Munich to allow Hitler to take the Sudetenland area of Czechoslovakia which he occupied in October, and in November he instigated what was to become known as Krystal Nacht when more than 7.500 Jewish shops and 400 synagogues were destroyed by fire and more than 20,000 Jews sent to concentration camps. 
All this was being witnessed by the public in English cinemas although little seemed to be being done by other countries to control German expansion or influence. Cynthia wondered how the knitters were dealing with the situation. Although on the one hand they obviously worshipped Hitler and wanted him as leader she did question how they would view his extreme measures. Although she never agreed with their politics, a few of them seemed to be reasonably rational people. 
It wasn’t until after his Mosley’s release that Cynthia received her first direct communication from the group. The phone call, from the Marjorie Snowden, came unexpectedly one Saturday morning.
‘Good morning Cynthia. I hope I find you well. I thought I would give you a call and see how you were.’
‘We’re fine thanks. I’m doing some work with the local WVS and tending to the garden. We have been growing vegetables which has not only made us self-sufficient but enabled us to give some to the shop. Richard is still working in London.’
Marjorie wasn’t really interested in Cynthia’s news and went off at a tangent. 
‘That’s good. Don’t you think the treatment of Mosley was unfair? There was no harm in him telling the country what they really wanted to hear. I cannot believe they interned him, but I’m relieved he has now been released. I am really looking forward to hearing him again. We still need his leadership.’  
‘But,’ replied Cynthia, ‘have you not read about his retirement? It’s in all the papers. He is staying with family and then moving to the country somewhere. He is having nothing more to do with politics.’
‘That may be the case, but there is still a need for us to do what we can to further the cause. Have you listened to the broadcasts from Germany by Lord Haw Haw. He is the one telling us the real story of what’s going on. We are being misinformed by our own press.’ As she continued her voice became more strident and emotional. ‘We cannot ignore the lies. We have to take action.’ She calmed down a little before continuing, ‘anyway, enough of my opinions. I have been asked by the others to contact you to say that you have not been forgotten, and that we will be calling on you soon to be of service. I cannot say anymore at present, especially over the phone. Speak soon,’ she rang off.
‘Bit brusque,’ thought Cynthia. ‘This is ridiculous, she obviously has no grasp of the bigger picture and she’s deluding herself if she thinks there would be support for a resurgence of the BUF or pro-German policies.’
Cynthia went to her bedroom to ring Bill and explain about the phone call. 
‘That’s good. I thought they had forgotten about you. Let me know how things progress. We are picking up indications that something might be in the offing, which may have a bearing on this. The phone call may confirm it. There must be a reason for putting you on alert.’
‘Bill, I know you can’t give me an answer, but I’m intrigued. How do you get your information?’
‘Ah, can’t tell you that of course, but it will all become clear once this is all over. Although it may take many years. Let me know as soon as they contact you again.’ 
She didn’t have to wait long. 


































