
CHAPTER 24
Cynthia was tending to her flower beds when a large car pulled up onto the gravel drive scattering stones in all directions. Two men dressed in overcoats not suitable for the hot weather and wearing trilby hats which were obviously part of an image they were attempting to project, got out and walked towards her. Almost simultaneously they produced their identity cards from their inside pockets.
Giving them a cursory glance, she asked sarcastically,
‘Why don’t you make your arrival more obvious?  Look what you’ve done to my drive, the stones sprayed on the lawn will play havoc with the mower. You had better come in doors. I presume you would like a drink of some kind.’
Leaving their driver in the car, her guests followed her through the front entrance to the house hidden beneath a rather ornate portico. 
‘Mary’, she shouted, ‘Can you bring coffee for three to the library please? No need for biscuits.’
She led them along the long corridor lined with heavy antique furniture and the dark family portraits in need of a clean, and into a room containing shelves and shelves of books, a single large desk and three leather chesterfields positioned in an open square in front of the fireplace.
‘Take a seat and tell me what all this is about”.
‘Mam,’ said the taller of the two in a slight but still noticeable Birmingham accent.
‘Before we go any further, please do not call me Mam…I am not the Queen…Lady Childreth, or simply Cynthia will do, and you are?’
‘Sorry, Lady Cynthia,’ not sure now on how to address her, ‘I am Mike Robbins, and this is Keith Macmillan. As you have probably guessed we are here in an official capacity. We’re working with the Wing Commander.’
Before he could continue, Mary arrived with the coffee and, out of habit, some biscuits and placed the tray on the table in front of them.
‘Thankyou Mary. Will you take a mug of tea to the driver in the car outside and then come back to join us?’
She turned to her two guests, ‘My Secretary,’ she explained…Fire away’.
‘He is in the country.’
‘Ah, so the trap is sprung. I had a message from the other side, as it were that something would happen soon. Are you expecting him to come here first?’
‘I doubt it. We picked up our information from phone call from Penzance and members of Special Branch will be following him to London. Others will pick him up from Paddington. According to our agent, he went to one specific compartment on the train where there were two others, a man and an elderly woman so we made arrangements for another member of our team to join the train at Taunton to follow the other man, just in case he is involved as well.’
‘Fine, so who am I expecting?’
‘To be absolutely honest we don’t know. He will probably make his way here after a couple of days in London. We will have someone follow him, so we will let you know his movements when we can. Meanwhile, just wait.’ He smiled at her while topping up his teacup. We do know that he is travelling under the name of Edwards. Have you heard anything from your group yet?’
‘Nothing except to wait, but they’re bound to contact me soon. What do you want me to do?’
‘Well, that’s the problem. Until he arrives and makes himself known to you, we have no idea of his intentions. All parties here are aware of his arrival, and as I said plans are in place to follow him. We have been asked to instruct you simply to do nothing at present, until we see how this unravels. You can contact the Wingco if things get awkward but only in an emergency. Just in case you are being watched.’ 
‘I have been waiting for a few years for something to happen, so much so that I thought they had forgotten about me, so a few more days will not be a problem.’
They both got up, shook Cynthia’s and Mary’s hand, thanked them for the coffee and left. ‘We will be in touch soon.’

Not long after their departure, the phone rang.
‘Cynthia, Peter Snowden here, we need to meet urgently. Can’t talk over the phone. Do you know the ‘Half-way House’ pub on the A4 a few miles the other side of Newbury?  If you don’t, you can’t miss it.  I realise it’s short notice, but I’ll see you there at 1.00.’ He put the phone down, leaving Cynthia staring at her receiver in surprise. 

Snowden rose when Cynthia went across to his table. 
‘Good afternoon, thanks for coming. I’ve taken the liberty of ordering you a white wine, I hope that’s OK.’
‘Thank you, that would be lovely. Now, why the urgency?’ Of course, she already knew the answer to this question, so had to maintain a semblance of surprise.
‘I know that we have kept you under wraps for a very long while, but now is the time for you to carry out that act of service which we discussed in the past. I understand Marjorie has forewarned you. We have been made aware, that a German agent has entered the country to carry out a single mission and we would like you to accommodate him once he has carried it out and until such time as we can smuggle him out of the country and over to France. We have no details, beyond the fact that his name is Edwards. He will go to London first, to be met by one of our people, carry out his task and either be brought to your house, or is that is impossible, he’ll make his own way there. I have no other details, so I cannot tell you how long he will be with you and who his contacts will be. You need to do nothing else, other than provide a safe haven.’
‘How will I recognise him?’
‘You won’t and you don’t need to. He will introduce himself as Edwards and show you a cheque book with that name on, issued by your husband’s bank. We will know when he is here so will maintain surveillance until we get further orders. Are there any questions?’
‘No, I am just pleased to be of service at last,’ she smiled.
‘I will probably not be in contact now until whatever the mission, whatever that might be has been carried out. Best if we don’t leave together, just in case, so please continue to enjoy the wine.’
Without further acknowledgement he left.

When she got home, Cynthia immediately rang Bill and explained the conversation she had had with Snowden. 
‘OK. We know about the arrival of Edwards, hence your visit earlier. He is being tracked as we speak. I wonder how they are aware of him being here it could only have been someone looking out for him in Penzance.’ 

