
CHAPTER 25 
For the past three days George Bennet had sat in the same seat in the window of the Atlantic Hotel making a pot of tea or a pint of beer last a long time and apparently reading a newspaper, always a day late, or giving a cursory glance at the menu which was both dog-eared and out of date as most of the meals listed had become increasingly unavailable as rationing took its toll. 
His position was ideal for watching the people walking down the narrow road some of whom he had got to know through their regular patterns of behaviour.  Virtually all they needed, the few shops, the Town Hall, offices, public houses were on this street which was no more than a quarter of a mile long.  One way led to Holgates Green, the other into the small square and then onto the harbour via the broken arch by the Mermaid pub.  The whole area was all very compact and self-contained. 
The staff probably saw him as a lonely middle-aged man, just too old for active service, seeking some respite from the effects of the war on the mainland. Although partly correct, at least the age bit, nothing could have been further from the truth.
He was looking out for one particular person, male or female, who didn’t quite fit in.  He knew they would be carrying a suitcase, probably two.  One of these would contain a radio, and would be heavy, at least 32 pounds in weight, so the carrier would show some strain in handling it.  He just had to be observant and patient. 
If he was honest, this was not the most onerous stake out he had taken part in.  The scenery and weather were good, the people were friendly, and it was all quite relaxing. Much better than sitting in an unmarked car, or on a park bench, in London…in winter.  
George knew the Isles of Scilly well, having holidayed there before the war with his wife.  When she died of Tuberculosis in 1936, he combatted his grief by volunteering for the unusual and often the most potentially dangerous cases on offer. With a rank of Chief Inspector, he could do almost what he wanted, within reason.  After a while his success rate and his recklessness had come to the attention of those higher up and he found himself seconded to Special Branch to lead a team of what could be colloquially termed ‘Spy Catchers’.  There were only five in the group, all senior officers with many years’ experience, but with the administrative back up of Scotland Yard and any other Police Force in whose area they were working.  The Isles of Scilly were the responsibility of the Cornwall constabulary which allocated one Police Constable to the islands in the winter and two in the summer. 
On the fourth morning his patience was rewarded. Eating breakfast at his usual table, he observed a dark-coated figure carrying two cases walking on the other side of the street.  Nothing too unfamiliar you might think, except as the Scillonian did not dock until after midday and had therefore not yet arrived, to see someone walking around town at that time of the morning with cases and wearing an overcoat in June was a little out of the ordinary. He finished his tea, picked up his newspaper and walked outside.  He needed to make sure that this was indeed his quarry and not some innocent businessman.  
He was not far in front of him and seemed not unduly concerned about his surroundings. In fact, he acted as if he belonged. George began to doubt his feelings about this man until his initial suspicions were more or less confirmed when he entered the Steamship Company offices, presumably to buy a ticket to the mainland.  
George walked across the street and stood in the porch of the Bishop and Wolf pub and read his paper. The man eventually came out and turned left towards Holgate Green and Town Beach. This was a small island, so he wasn’t going far. 
George went into the office. There was a young woman dressed quite sombrely, even for the time, sitting on a high stool behind the counter. 
‘Excuse me. The man who just came in. I seem to remember him from somewhere but can’t place him. Did he buy a ticket?’ 
‘Yes sir. A single ticket to Penzance for this afternoon.’
‘Did you happen to get his name by any chance? It might jog my memory.’
‘Hang on, let me look.’
She went back to her desk, checked the ledger and returned. 
‘The signature is a little difficult to make out but looks like T. something Edwards. Does that help?’
‘Edwards, Edwards. No doesn’t ring a bell. I’m returning to Penzance this afternoon so I may come across him again. Many thanks for your help.’
He smiled and was about to leave the counter when the Clerk said.  ‘A little unusual sir, but he paid by cheque so his account name should be on it.’
She returned to her desk and came back with cheque in hand. 
‘It’s Martins Bank, 68 Lombard St. London, sir. Account name T. G. Edwards’. 
He scrutinised it. Obviously genuine because the logo of a Grasshopper was at the top, and the Liver Bird at the bottom was embossed in the corner. And if he needed further proof, there was no apostrophe in Martins. 
‘Many thanks. You’ve been a great help’.
He turned and went outside. 
This was the right man. He knew precisely why a German agent would pay by cheque from one of the more obscure British banks. He had really wanted to make a note of the account number to confirm his opinion but if truth be told, he thought, it really didn’t matter.
All the elements were there, two suitcases, one obviously heavy, being carried around town at 9.00 in the morning by a man in an overcoat unsuitable for the time of year; the cheque clinched it.
As there was no return sailing until later that afternoon and only one way off the island, George had no need to follow Mr Edwards. As it was a sunny morning and he had time to spare, he took the opportunity to walk out towards Porthcressa Beach.  Avoiding the wire emplacements on the sands he followed the path over the hill and around Penninis Head to the church at Old Town Bay to visit an unusual grave.  The stone coffin of Naval Surgeon Abraham Leggatt, who died in 1809, had been placed in a vertical position in the south of the churchyard so that the top section containing his head overlooked the bay. Of course, rumours abound as to why he requested this, but none have stood the test of time. Perhaps he simply wanted to see the view thought George.

After a couple of hours, he returned to the Atlantic had a late lunch, packed his things and settled his account.  All he had to do now was be at the quayside ready for departure.  








