
CHAPTER 26
Just before four George was leaning against the sea wall looking like a typical tourist, casually dressed and with a rucksack at his feet.  It was still very sunny and the residual heat from the stones was pleasantly warm on his back. 
The Scillonian was tied up at the end of the quay opposite the harbour master’s office. A couple of men were putting the last of the cargo directly into the hold from above and a boat from one of the off islands, which had tied up alongside to transfer materials into the lower doors, was reversing into the waters off Town Beach.  It looked so commonplace, that one could easily believe that there was no war taking place.  However, there were signs…her once white hull and superstructure were painted black and the newly widened bridge now supported two Lewis guns. There was also a naval vessel waiting outside the harbour ready to escort her to the mainland. 
Edwards was already there and easy to spot as there were very few travellers going to the mainland and certainly not wearing heavy overcoats.  One serviceman in naval uniform obviously going back from leave, two women who were talking animatedly to one of the dockers, and a couple of others, seemed to be the full complement of passengers. 
When the ropes were removed from across the grey wooden gangplank, they all made their way onboard. The others went below and settled in the saloon, but George remained on top to get the sea air and the view. Edwards still seemed remarkably calm, so much so that again George had to convince himself that he was following the right person.  He was rather non-descript and not the archetypal German that had been seen on the newsreels...no blonde hair or distinguishing marks, but presumably that was part of the deception.
Exactly on time the boat left St Mary’s harbour with the destroyer on her port side and a Hurricane flying above it. Standard procedure for every journey.
Almost three hours later after a relatively calm crossing to the mainland and the sheltered sail along the Cornish coast passing many little fishing villages set back in coves, she was tied up at the Scillonian’s berth at the western end of Penzance harbour.  From this point on the trailing would be a little more difficult and what George did now really depended on Edward’s next move. 
There was no overnight train to London so he would need to stay somewhere in town. George followed him towards the station where he turned left up Station Road and into the Long Boat Inn, which was directly opposite. George went in behind him just to confirm that he was staying the night and then returned down the hill to the station. He entered beneath the arch and spoke to his colleague who had been at the same spot at the same time for the past few days waiting for him to arrive. He was dressed in shorts, long-socks, a fair isle jumper and a cap and was leaning against his bicycle looking like a typical holidaymaker.  The long sleeves on his shirt covered the burn scars he had received when his Hurricane had pancaked on landing back in 1940. 
‘Evening Jim!’
‘Hello George. Has he arrived?’
‘Yes, I have just seen him book a room at the Long Boat Inn up the road. Nothing more we can do tonight. But let me check the timetable to see train times for tomorrow.’
He went across to the board and tried to work out the departures for London. Penzance to Paddington via Exeter St Davids and Bristol Temple Meads 07.45. 
‘It looks like the first one goes at 7.45 in the morning, I’ll get a room in the same hotel and meet you here at about 7.15. Will that be OK?’
‘No problem’ he said, as he got on his bike and went off, to where George had no idea.
He went back to the hotel through the double doors and into reception to be greeted by the land lady. 
‘May I book a room for the night, and can I have an early morning call at 6.00?’
‘Of course, Sir, breakfast is served from 6.45 in the dining room through there.  May I see your identity card please. Also, if you are leaving early, we like to have payment in advance. Not that we don’t trust our guests, it just saves time in the morning, especially if you have an early appointment or a train to catch’.
He handed over his personal card and after all the details had been checked and recorded and returned to his wallet, he then took out his official one instead and placed it on the counter. 
‘Madam, in confidence, can you help me with some official business?’
She was rather surprised at being confronted with a Special Branch ID card, and just to make sure she looked at the photo again.  ‘So, Detective Chief Inspector George Bennet, how can I help you?’ she said with a smile.
‘The man who came in earlier, a Mr Edwards, can you tell me if he paid for his room by cash or cheque?’
‘Cheque Sir’
‘May I see it please?’
She went into the office behind the desk and returned with the cheque and handed it to him.  Martins Bank, same as the one in the Scillonian Office. 
‘Many thanks, you have been very helpful?’ 
He paid her the money for his room and she handed him a key. 
‘Is there a bar, or somewhere I can get a drink?’
‘Of course, just there,’ she said pointing to her left.
He picked up his bag and went through the glass door on his right to be met by the landlady again. Must be difficult to get staff he thought. 

As arranged, he was back at the station by the appointed time and waited outside. Edwards came soon after. 
Without any acknowledgement, Jim followed him into the ticket office to make sure of his destination and then bought a similar ticket. As he came out, he looked at George and mouthed the word ‘London’ and then watched Edwards proceed along the platform. It seemed to Jim as though he was looking for one particular carriage and after a while got in at the fourth one along.
Jim placed his bicycle in the goods van, boarded the train at the same carriage and sat down in the seat nearest the corridor in the section behind Edwards, looking towards the engine. 
Since he had a little time before the train departed as he already had an open-ended return ticket, George ambled along the platform and surreptitiously glanced into the carriage that Edwards had got in to. The elderly lady seated in the window looked at him and went back to her knitting.  He turned and went outside to an adjacent phone box, one, which for a change, did not smell like a urinal. He put through a long-distance trunk call to the London office via the operator, inserted the requisite coins in the box and when connected, pressed button A. He left a very simple message with the secretary at the other end to say that the target, using the name Edwards, was on the train to Paddington which would arrive in about ten hours and there were two other passengers in his compartment, a man and an elderly lady. Once he received confirmation that it would be passed on, he left the box, returned to the station and got on the train.
He walked down the corridor, slid open the door and entered the same compartment as Edwards. It had the usual musty smell and drab features of a carriage well beyond its life expectancy, even down to the faded black and white photos depicting scenes along the journey such as the Maidenhead Bridge over the Thames, and the Clifton Suspension Bridge in Bristol.
He placed his bag on the overhead rack, took a book from his pocket and settled down in the corner seat identical to Jim’s but looking towards the rear of the train, so all sight lines were covered. 
Apart from Edwards there were the two other people he had seen from the outside. The grey-haired woman of indeterminate age with a ball of wool and needles on her lap, wearing a maroon coat and a cloche hat that had obviously seen better days, and a studious looking man in a dark suit with thinning hair and wearing pince-nez glasses. 
Edwards had placed both his cases onto the luggage rack in between ones of similar design. 
No words were spoken as the wheels gave an initial shudder and they were on their way to London Paddington. 
After thirty minutes George left his travelling companions to their knitting and newspapers, went into the corridor and leant on the wooden rail which stretched the length of the carriage just below the bottom of the windows, and looked at the scenery as the train passed through Cornwall.
Although a little inconvenient, the fact that the Buffet car was closed made watching Edwards easier. He could not go far. 

The journey was uneventful. The lady was still knitting, the man in the corner was doing a crossword and Edwards was reading a book. The only break from the boredom was the ticket collector continually walking up and down the carriages informing passengers of the next station as of course all the signs had been removed to confuse the enemy.  Annoyingly, the train stopped at all the small stations along the line, but it made George realise just how important this train was to the local economy. In his opinion the most scenic part of the journey was when the train went through Dawlish and Dawlish Warren, where it looked as though it was travelling on the promenade right next to the sea.  As they pulled into Exeter St David’s he looked at his watch...12.15. It was ten minutes late, but not unexpected. The train was due in Paddington at 6.20, but that now seemed optimistic. 
As the train was about to leave Taunton, the group was joined by a young woman who George would guess to be in her mid-twenties wearing a tweed jacket and skirt, sturdy walking shoes and carrying a stick and a khaki coloured rucksack which she deposited in the empty space beside her.  She looked like a character often seen on the cover of some girl’s adventure story book. 
‘Phew. That was close. Got all my timings wrong.’ she giggled, ‘had to run the last half-mile.’  She spoke in a cultured voice the product perhaps of a good education. She swept off her beret to reveal auburn hair tied loosely at the back with a dark blue ribbon. She reminded him of one of Rossetti’s paintings. 
Once on the move again George went back into the corridor. Jim, in the compartment behind had not moved and was maintaining his role as a tourist by seemingly showing interest in a map which he had unfolded on his lap.  He turned back towards the window and opened a packet of cigarettes. 
‘Have one of mine.’ It was the girl from Taunton. 
‘Um, that’s very kind of you’
She offered him a blue packet containing Piccadilly cigarettes, a bit above the Woodbines he was used to. 
He took one and gave the carton back and proceeded to light her cigarette before his. 
They started a polite, but banal conversation.
‘Are you going to London?’ he asked
‘That depends. I may simply get off the train and explore a part of the countryside I have not seen before. That was what I was doing in Taunton…taking a bus and then walking around the little Somerset villages with obscure names like High Ham, Shepton Beauchamp and Martock. I spent a lot of time visiting the churches. There is a fabulous one in Langport which has some lovely Burne-Jones windows, although they are a little dark for my liking. Are you interested in church architecture? Fascinating subject.’  
‘No, I’ve not really had much time to develop many interests outside work’.
‘By the way, I’ve not introduced myself. I’m Alison and you are?’
‘George’, he replied
‘Nice to meet you George’, she said in a rather loud voice and as she shook his hand, she palmed a small piece of paper.

This trivial exchange went on for a few minutes more, before she went back and reoccupied her seat. George walked a little further down the corridor and read the note. ‘I’m with you…
I’ll follow the guy with the glasses.’
When he returned to his seat, she was leaning back with her eyes closed feigning sleep. An interesting character he thought. He had no idea who she really was, or what role she was playing but she was doing it well.  The train continued east stopping at Bristol Temple Meads and then Bath at 3.00, now 15 mins late. Getting a little claustrophobic, he resumed his place outside at the rail just as the train entered the long Box Tunnel. The train interior went dark for a couple of minutes as it travelled the 1.8 miles to the other end. An amazing piece of engineering he thought. 
Nothing was said for the rest of the journey. He spent time looking at the framed map above the seat opposite and began mentally ticking off the stations in turn, Chippenham, Swindon, Didcot, after which the inspector came along shouting ‘Goring and Streatley…next stop Goring.’  The lady with the cloche hat, put her knitting into a crocheted bag and reached up to take down one of the cases from the rack. She refused any offer of help and proceeded to walk along the corridor, out of the door and onto the platform. 
The train continued on its journey.

Declining an offer from the porter to carry her luggage the grey-haired lady walked out of the station onto Station Road and across to a small car that was already waiting. She put the case in the boot and sat in the passenger seat. 
‘Is that it?’, asked the driver, looking at the case.
‘Yes’, she said, ‘It was all very smooth. The three of us were in the same compartment as arranged and we didn’t say a word or acknowledge each other for the whole of the journey’. 
‘Anyone else see you?’
There were a couple of others; there was a man who spent his time reading and getting up to have a smoke in the corridor, and a young flibbertigibbet who got on at Taunton and couldn’t keep still. She was full of nervous energy. Nobody could have suspected anything. We did have a touch of good fortune. He was in the corridor when the train went through the Box tunnel, so the switch was easy.’
‘Excellent, a job well done. Let’s go home.’
They drove along the road, turned left over the railway bridge, down through the village, across two more bridges spanning the River Thames and into Streatley. At the crossroads they went straight across and up a very steep hill where, at the top, the road bisected the local golf club. After another couple of miles, they arrived at the village of Aldworth where they turned through the gates of a large timbered cottage. 
When she got indoors, she not only removed her travelling clothes, she also took off a grey wig which made her look years younger. 



























