
CHAPTER 27
When the train arrived at Reading at 5.40, according to the large clock above the platform, the man with the pince-nez went through the same routine, took down a case, apologised for making a fuss and walked out.  Almost as an afterthought, Alison got up and grabbed her rucksack and stick and looked across at George.
‘Never been to Reading before. I think I’ll get out here and spend a few days wandering around. Our paths may cross again. Goodbye.’
After the dark suited man had stepped off the train, he walked to the right, turned sharply and went down two flights of stairs. At the bottom, he turned left into a wide subway, walked back underneath the tracks and ascended the steps to arrive at the town side of the station.  Giving his ticket to the collector at the gate, he walked out onto the station concourse and straight across the road into the Great Western Hotel, a sandy coloured building at the junction of, according to the signs, Station Rd and Queen Victoria Street. 
He was followed all the way by Alison. She entered the hotel, deliberately hid her rucksack and stick behind a chair, approached the reception and made a play of retrieving a leaflet from a stand whilst listening out for his name.
‘I believe you have a reservation for me.  My name is Young.’
The receptionist went back to her desk and scanned a large ledger.
‘That’s correct sir, we do. May I have your ID please?’
Young complied, signed the register and was given his key. 
‘Number 107 sir, on the first floor. Up the stairs and to your right. Would you like a hand with your luggage?’
‘No thank you. I’ll manage.
Alison remained where she was, pretending to read about ‘what to do in the event of an air raid’, until he had disappeared from sight.
Now she knew where he was, she returned to the station, went into a cubicle in the ladies and changed. Off came the hat, tweeds, jumper and walking brogues, to be replaced by white blouse, grey jacket, black trousers and low-heeled shoes. She then removed the auburn wig, complete with ribbon, to reveal her natural short-cut light brown hair. Finally, she put on a pair of wire-rimmed clear-glass spectacles. The transformation was amazing; totally unrecognisable from the over-excited young rambler she had been just a few minutes before.
She took a purse and another small bag containing all she needed for an overnight stay from the rucksack, and replaced them with her discarded clothes, and wig. Then, after one final check in the mirror, she went outside to the Left Luggage Office where she deposited both her backpack and stick. She had already given over her original train ticket when she exited the first time, so when challenged she surreptitiously showed her official ID card and was let through without any fuss. 
It was now almost 6pm so she thought it unlikely that Young would be moving very far but she needed to make sure. She made herself comfortable in an armchair in the hotel lobby with a clear view of the stairs. He reappeared an hour later and walked straight past, obviously not recognising her, and went into the dining room. Satisfying herself that he was settled, she went to the reception desk.
‘May I book a single room for the night, and would it be possible to extend my stay should I need to?’
‘Of course, Madam. May I see your ID please?’
She handed over her personal one and as the receptionist was transcribing her details onto a card Alison asked for a seat in the dining room.
‘There is no need to reserve a table, Madam. We are usually quiet mid-week. Just ask the waitress.’
‘Thankyou. May I pay for my room now, in case I need to leave in a hurry tomorrow. I’ll pay each day if I stay longer, if that’s OK?’
‘That will be fine’, turning the register for her to sign. 
She took up the pen, signed the book and took the money from her purse to pay.
‘By the way, what time is breakfast?’.
‘It starts at 6.45 Madam, again in the dining room.’
With that, Alison thanked her and walked through the glass doors etched in pastoral designs typical of when the hotel was built. 







