
CHAPTER 28

While Alison was watching Young, the train had continued its journey through Twyford, Maidenhead and Slough, until if finally arrived at London Paddington, the imposing Great Western Railway terminus in the West of London. It was dark as the huge area of glass at the eastern end of the platforms was covered with decades of soot and smoke stains making it look like late evening. 
George waited until Edwards was out of the compartment with his two cases, before he rose picked up his bag and followed him onto the platform. As they were heading for the ticket collectors at the western end, Jim returned to the guard’s van to collect his bicycle.  George looked around and recognised at least six Special Branch agents, in various modes of dress reading papers, perusing the departure boards and being as unobtrusive as possible. They were there to cover any eventualities. There was no acknowledgement as Edwards was easily recognisable by the fact that George was close behind him. All had their role to play depending on which route he took. They had already been told that under no circumstances were they to arrest him or hinder his progress. He was their link to local sympathisers in the country.  There were none from overseas as all had been caught, turned and were now either double agents, or had been hanged in Pentonville Prison, or shot in the Tower of London. If you were an enemy agent, external or internal, the stakes were high. Churchill had been convinced that the German victories in Western Europe could not be solely down to tactics and better weapons, and he was convinced that there had to be a fifth column working within the country and he wanted them found. When he was informed that British nationals acting in this way could be prosecuted for Treason, but anyone from overseas could not, he introduced the Treachery Act within two weeks of taking office. By May 23rd the Bill had passed through parliament, received royal assent and carried only one sentence: death. Edwards was playing a dangerous game.
Having handed in his ticket he walked to the left-hand side of the station shadowed by four of the men, two behind and two in front.  He went up the slope and into Praed Street. At this point he stopped and referring to a piece of paper he had removed from his coat pocket he looked around. London Street was directly ahead, Craven Road to his right. He came to a decision and turned left, passing Norfolk Place and Bolivere Place on the right until he reached the Edgeware Road. Here he crossed over into Crawford Place, continued past the Laurie Arms and entered an adjacent greengrocer, all the while being followed. After a while he came out with a key, placed his cases on the path, and then unlocked the door immediately alongside the shop. He entered and after a short time closed the curtains in a room on the first floor overlooking the road. 
Leaving two men to observe, the other four, plus George and Jim who had followed on his bike, adjourned to the pub and sat at a pavement table. 
‘Right, we know where he is, so we need to keep an eye on where he goes and who he sees.’ He turned to a couple of them. 
‘Jim and I are going straight back to the office to organise a 24-hour watch on this place. Stay here with the others until I can get you relieved, which shouldn’t be long. Whatever you do don’t be seen. You know the routines. Under no circumstances apprehend any visitors. Understand?’
‘Fine.’
‘When you are replaced come to the Yard. We need a strategy meeting this evening so see you then. We’ll wait until you get there. Jim, I’m taking a taxi, will you cycle or leave the bike back at Paddington and come with me?’
‘You’re joking, if I leave it there, I won’t see it again. I’ll cycle thanks all the same.’ He set off back towards the Edgeware Road while George walked in the same direction as he would have a better chance of hailing a cab.’
They had all convened within the hour and others had been sent to relieve their colleagues on watch, this time sitting in the comfort of a small non-descript car.
‘Right,’ said George standing next to a blackboard holding a stick of chalk, ‘Let’s take stock. We know where he has come from and we now know where he’s staying. That’s a start, but the big questions are why is he here, and why now? Jim, I would like you to liaise with Bill Laurie over at 5 to see if they have anything to pick up radio signals from that flat. I would have thought he would need a higher location, although, he may be wanting to hide his transmissions in the general broadcasting noise in the area. There’s plenty of it. Jenkins and Dent are in the car now, but we will need at least another two so we can have a 24-hour watch for as long as we need it.’ He turned to another colleague. ‘Bert, can you sort that and make sure everyone takes a careful note of anyone who enters the building, and make certain they follow him if he leaves. Unless something happens, which needs an urgent response, we will meet here at 19.00 every evening, apart from the watchers of course.
In the meantime, we wait.’
Within hours the cars were organised, and a rota of observers was drawn up. On the second evening they met to discuss the day, Jenkins looked at his notes and reported that apart from a postman delivering mail, nobody else had entered the building. There was nothing else out of the ordinary. He had not left, which meant that he must have had plenty of food in the flat. At the next three meetings, the reports were exactly the same. Nobody went in and nobody came out. 
‘What is going on?’ said George. ‘There is something not quite right here. I presume we checked there was only one entrance, he couldn’t have got out via the shop could he.’
‘No, first thing we checked. The building backs straight onto another one. No other exit or entrance.’
George sighed, stood up and walked across to the window deep in thought. After a few seconds he turned to the others. ‘So, we have a choice. We can either maintain a watching brief, or we can be more proactive. We will wait for tonight’s reports and then make a decision tomorrow. Jim, have we had any news about the radio being used?’
‘No, they say it’s difficult to get hold of the equipment, so may be a day or so.’
‘Brilliant,’ said George sarcastically. ‘So, a decision tomorrow. Agreed?’
There were nods of agreement around the table. ’Good, let’s call it a day. Anyone fancy a pint? Jim’s buying. No not really, I’m going for quick one before going home if anyone wants to join me.’ He left, followed only by Jim and Bert.
While all this had been happening, Alison had been following Young in Reading.
After a fitful night’s sleep interrupted by the sound of trains, she was in the dining room as soon as it opened in case Young did the same. She did not want to miss him. She had a book with her in case it proved to be a long wait and after she had eaten a meal of limited choice, she took her time over the coffee. He came in at about 8.00 just had tea and toast and went out again. Alison followed, but only as far as the foyer where she could again watch the stairs. After 30 minutes he returned carrying his case, handed his key to the receptionist and went outside.  He then walked back towards the station, but instead of going inside he went to a row of bus stops on the right, outside the Southern Rail station, which was a smaller and lower building than the main one. This one served towns to the Southeast of the town as far as the coast and London Waterloo. Young perused the numbers on the flag-like signs jutting out at right angles from the poles and then making his choice, got into a queue. Alison was three behind him having deliberately waited for other passengers to turn up.
A number 11, red single-decker bus arrived at the stop and the queue shuffled forward to get on. Alison passed while Young placed his case in the luggage area and made her way to the back so she could see everyone in front of her. As the bus moved away the ticket collector came to her first to collect the fares. As she had no way of knowing when he would get off, she paid to the terminus, wherever that might be. As well as keeping an eye on him, she paid close attention to the route the bus was taking, specifically any remaining road signs or other indicators of where she might be, in case she had to find her own way back. Having left the station it went into the town and stopped outside St Mary’s church, it then turned right up Castle Hill and onto the Bath Road which would indeed eventually lead to Bath, but hopefully not in this bus she thought. After going through the village of Theale, worked out by a sign over the butchers, the bus turned right and after a few minutes turned left and past a farm with Chalk Pit written on the gate.  About half a mile later, the road seemed to bisect a school with buildings and playing fields on either side. The bus then continued up a hill to an impressive war memorial with its Passchendaele cross, turned right and stopped opposite the Queens Head pub. By now there were only five people remaining. At a signal from the conductor, it continued for another 2 miles past a garage on the left, a post office, through the village and then between a double avenue of large oak trees, until it stopped at the Blade Bone Inn a couple of minutes later.
‘That’s all folks, end of the line,’ announced the ticket collector. He must have been watching too many Looney Tunes cartoons in the cinema thought Alison. 
As the last passengers alighted Alison asked him about the times of the buses back. 
‘They leave from across the road every hour until the last at 6.00 this evening’ he replied.
‘Thankyou.’

Young turned and walked back along the road and turned towards a gate on his left. As Alison watched from a bench nearby, he took a few steps up the drive looked at the house, came out again and went back to the village and into the shop.
‘How strange,’ thought Alison, ‘what is he doing?’
He came out a couple of minutes later holding a bag of biscuits, sat on the grass and proceeded to eat them. It looked as though he was waiting for the next bus. Alison was now in a difficult situation. She could not get on the same bus without having a purpose to be out in the country because Young might realise that he’d been followed. On the other hand, if she left the bench and went for a walk, he could quite easily go off somewhere and she would have no idea where. She ran through the options in her mind ‘It looks as though he has come here just to see this house, and perhaps get his bearings for some reason. Now the question is whether he is going to move or stay for the next bus.’
The answer came sooner than she thought.
Young rose from the grass, put the empty biscuit bag in his pocket, picked up his case and returned to the house. This time he walked over the cattle-grid and continued up a long drive towards the building, knocked on the door and waited. It was opened by Cynthia.
‘Good morning Lady Childreth. I understand you are expecting me,’ said Young.
Cynthia was rather taken aback. She was indeed expecting someone, but this man certainly did not fit the description she had been given.
Alison went back to the village and to the phone box standing immediately next to the bus shelter and made two calls. The first was to Bill explaining where she was and what she had witnessed. Bill in turn, asked her to wait around and catch the last bus back to Reading if nothing had happened in the meantime. 
The second call was to Cynthia using the number Bill had given her. After a minute or so the phone was picked up.
‘Hello, Cynthia Childreth. How can I help you?’ asked Cynthia tentatively.
‘Lady Childreth, the Wing Commander asked me to phone you. Are you able to talk?’
The code had been triggered, so Cynthia felt better about taking the call.
‘Yes, I am in my bedroom, everyone else is downstairs.’
‘I have been following the man who has just arrived at your house. His name is Young and he was on the train from Penzance yesterday and stayed overnight in Reading. He walked up your drive about half an hour, before coming back and going into the shop. He may have been making sure yours was the right house. Am I correct in assuming that you were expecting him?’
‘Yes, I was told yesterday. But his name isn’t Young…he is Sir John Davies. I was told to expect a man called Edwards. I know I haven’t seen him in a while, but surely Davies would recognise me, or be concerned that I would recognise him.’
There was a pause, before Alison said. ‘Leave everything to me. I will call Bill and let him know. Afterwards, I’ll come to see you on some pretence. Make out I’m from the village or something.’
 She rang off and immediately called Bill again. 
‘That’s very strange and rather disconcerting. If she was expecting Edwards why has he been replaced by Davies acting as Young. That means that Davies was in the carriage with George throughout the journey so why use another alias? Leave this with me. In the meantime, see Cynthia and reassure her that we are around. If, Davies remains in the house is there anywhere local you can stay if necessary?’
‘I’ll find somewhere. I’ll be in touch.’























