
CHAPTER 29
Another two days of observation in London and there was still no action to report. ‘OK. We are going to find out what’s going on. We need to have a legitimate reason to get into the flat because if he is still there, we don’t want to give ourselves away. ‘Jim, can you give the electric company a call and see if the meter is located inside, if not, try the gas. If they are, ask if they could supply us with a uniform and whatever equipment is needed.’
Jim returned. ‘Electricity is on the outside under the stairs, but the gas meter is in the flat. They will bring us the relevant clothes and forms within the hour.’
‘Good. We’ll meet here tomorrow morning at 9 and take it from there.’
They gathered in the office the following day when Bert was chosen as the stand-in gas inspector because he was the only one who could get into the uniform, which wasn’t very big.
‘We will drive to the area in three cars and park out of sight. Bert, just in case he is watching, make a visit to a couple of other places along the road before you knock on his door. That’s a point, does the door on the street only give access to the building or straight into the flat?’
‘Not sure but there is the only one door into the building George,’ said Bert,’ but that’s not a problem the lock is so simple my granny could pick it. A few seconds and I’ll be in.’
‘Right, just enter and if he is there, be very polite, read the meter, pass the time of day for a few seconds then walk out. Keep up the pretence for a bit longer just in case. We will not act if everything seems normal. OK? Let’s go.’
They returned to Crawford Place and dropped Bert off on the corner of the road. He duly visited a couple of houses first before he arrived at Edward’s door. It was unlocked which although unexpected made life a little easier. Bert climbed the stairs covered in an extremely thread bare carpet which had not been replaced for a considerable time. There was a strange smell, which Bert couldn’t place; perhaps from the neighbouring shop. The door to the flat was locked, so Bert knocked and called ‘Gas Man here to read the meter’. No answer, he tried again, still no answer. It was a flimsy construction, so he took the initiative and barged against it with his shoulder. The door gave way easily, and Bert was confronted with a smell so pungent that he could almost taste it. 
‘Oh my God,’ he said to himself. Lying on the floor immediately in front of him was Edwards with a very neat hole in the front of his forehead. Bert stood still, took a few deep breaths and then retraced his footsteps through the shattered doorway and back into the street. 
Once outside he leant against the wall and gathered himself.  George went across to him.
‘Are you OK? You’re as white as a sheet.’ At that point Bert threw up onto the pavement splashing both his and George’s shoes.
‘Sorry about that George.’ He wiped his hand across his mouth. ‘You need to take a look inside, but be prepared, it’s not a pretty sight.’
George left him in the care of one of the others, and taking Jim with him, entered the building and then the flat. The body was lying on its back with a look of surprise on its face. From the state it was in it had been there for a few days.  There was no evidence of a struggle and the only visible sign of death was the single shot to the head, now swollen beyond all recognition.
He turned to Jim.  ‘Tell Jenkins to take a car and get the police doctor here as soon as possible. We’ll also need one of our own photographers so see if he can do that at the same time, if not send someone else in the other car. We need to get this recorded and sealed off now and then get the local plod to do house to house. Whatever they say this comes under our jurisdiction, but we will need their manpower to do the basics. I’ll deal with the politics when I’m in the office. Can you get one of the others to check if anyone in the shop has heard or seen anything unusual over the past few days, but without giving anything away? The last thing we want is the press sniffing around. While you do that I’ll wait here for the Doctor.’ 
‘Will you be OK?’ asked Jim.
‘Yes, I’m fine, but you know, none of this makes any sense.’ He turned to look at the body careful not to disturb anything ‘We’ll meet at 19.00 as usual and go through it all again.’






