
CHAPTER 30
The Doctor arrived soon afterwards, gave a cursory glance at Edwards and stated the obvious.
‘Death caused by a single shot to the head. Won’t be able to give you anymore until I get a closer look at him. Your colleague stressed the need for secrecy, so I’ve arranged for him to be picked up by an unmarked ambulance.  It should be here soon.’ 
Dent came in. ‘Just checked in the shop sir, they say they didn’t see or hear anything. I asked them about the key, and they said they are only the key holders. They have no idea who could have unlocked the street door and they don’t know who now owns the flat which according to them hasn’t been used for years. It used to be owned by a guy who was called up and died at Dunkirk, but that’s all they could tell me.’
‘The place looks clean, the cupboard is stocked with food and the gas and electricity are working, how do they account for that? Someone must have been here, and recently. Can you go to the council offices and ask who pays the rates and find out where the gas and electric companies sends their bills? There doesn’t seem to be any mail lying around so it either doesn’t come here or it’s been picked up by someone. Before you go, give me a hand to get these cases on the table would you.’
The cases were identical to the ones he had followed from the Scillies earlier in the week. The first had already been opened, because the catches were undone and there were a few clothes lying on the bed which had been slept in, so he concentrated on the second one the heavier of the two. He flicked the clasps on either side and lifted the lid.
‘Well, I’m damned. So much for a radio. John, look at this.’ 
Dent returned and looked over George’s shoulder. ‘Books!’ he uttered in surprise, ‘and a lot of them. No wonder it was heavy. But I thought he was supposed to be carrying a radio.’
‘So did I, so did I. This is getting curiouser by the minute.’ He stood back and pondered his next move. 
‘I need to get back and make some phone calls and, on the way, I’ll go to St Johns Police station to organise some help. Before you check the rates and services tell the rest of the team to stay here and make sure nothing is touched. We can’t lock this door, but we may be able to secure the one downstairs once he’s been removed. I’ll send the car back once I get to the Yard. See you at seven.’
With that he went onto the street and got into his car. He was very diplomatic at St Johns. The Chief Inspector there was concerned and a little aggrieved that he did not have control of what looked like a murder investigation on his own patch, but when George explained it was a matter of national security, he agreed to provide any help that was needed.
‘Thanks. You know the drills. I need as much information I can get from the locals, without making it obvious what has happened. I’m not expecting your lads to come up with anything important, but you never know. Do you have a beat officer who does that area?’
‘We do.’
‘Could you ask him if he saw anything out of the ordinary? If he walks around there every day, he must know it well, so he would be the most likely to notice something or someone different.’
‘I’ll ask him myself when he comes back on duty. Do I contact you at the Yard?’
‘Yes.’ He wrote a few figures on piece of paper and pushed it across the desk. ‘That’s my direct line, saves going through the switchboard. Let me know of anything you find, no matter how insignificant you think it might be. Thanks for your cooperation. I know it’s not easy to pass up on a case like this, but even I haven’t been given the full picture yet. I’ll keep you informed as much as I can.’ He rose and extended his hand to the Inspector. 
George went back to the Yard and having sent the car back, made his way through the wooden clad corridors to his office and slumped into an armchair. Within seconds there was a cup of tea on his desk.
‘Thought you might like this sir.’
‘June, you are a lifesaver,’ he said with a smile. 

He picked up a notebook and started doodling, his usual practice when deep in thought, and went through the events of the week right back to his first sight of Edwards in St Marys. By the time the others arrived at 7 he had constructed a reasonably detailed timeline. The two suitcases were open and on the table in front of him. 
‘Right, let’s get on with it. 
 I’ll go through what we have so far, but please interrupt if I have overlooked anything, or you suddenly get some inspired thought. I spent the afternoon going over everything, from me picking him up in St Mary’s to seeing him into his flat. It was a useful exercise because it raised a few unanswered questions. 
First of all, it was obvious that everything had been arranged for him, except the ticket from St Marys to Penzance, but even there he paid with a cheque with the name of Edwards, a name we had been asked to look out for some years ago. He used it again at the hotel, but paid cash for the rail ticket. Thinking back, Jim you said he seemed to be looking for a specific compartment on the train, because he walked up and down on the platform a couple of times before getting on. In it were the elderly lady and the guy who looked like a cleric or classics professor. There were two cases on the rack, identical to these that we found this morning. He indicated the cases now on the table. This case contains his clothes. Nothing unusual here, there are no identifying labels of any sort, as one would expect, but anyone notice anything about the books? Take a close look.’
They weren’t really sure what they should be seeing, as far as they were concerned, it was a black suitcase full of books.
‘Not sure…well look at the titles.’
‘They’re all in English.’
‘Correct, so what does that tell us?’
‘This had to be packed here. He did not bring it with him.’
‘Absolutely, it confirms what we already thought, that the switching of the cases happened here, and it could only have been on the train or the hotel, and I doubt it took place there. So, if one or both were interchanged, where did it happen?’
‘Which route did you take sir, was it via Bath?’
‘Yes,’
‘Well, meaning no disrespect sir, it can only have taken place in the Box Tunnel. If, I remember from my journeys to Bristol it goes very dark. Were you in the compartment yourself?’
‘No, I was in the corridor. Good point. So, for the moment, let’s go with that, it’s as good a theory as any. There’s something else. A woman got on a Taunton, who clearly knew me because when she offered me a cigarette and passed me a note saying she would follow the man. Not exactly her words but something like it. When he got off at Reading, so did she. I need to follow that up.’
‘Where did the other lady get off sir, the elderly one, or was she with you at Paddington?’
George gave this some thought. ‘I have to say I didn’t take much notice of her, but it was before Reading. Goring I think. Yes, that’s right because I remember her refusing any help with her case.’
‘That’s the journey dealt with and I will need to make some other enquiries, especially about the Taunton girl. Let’s look at this end. Facts, Edwards was killed with one shot to the head. This happened not long after his arrival because he had only unpacked a couple of items of clothing, although the bed had been slept in. Had he eaten or made a cup of tea? Did anyone check the sink to see if there was any washing up in it? Might help to give us a time frame. There was no sign of a forced entry, except Bert’s, and the way he was lying on the floor indicates that he must have been shot as soon as he opened the door, because if his assailant had had a key he might have entered and shot him somewhere else in the room. Did he know him? Was there a code word? Whoever it was had to have gained entry from the street door, so can you look at your notes again and see if anything stands out, now we know what might have happened?’
All those who had been watching the building referred to their notes. 
‘Nothing unusual as far as I can make out sir. Nobody approached the flat at all apart from the postman.’
‘John, say that again.’
‘Nobody went near the door except the postman.’
‘In that case, where was the mail?’ There was nothing inside the street door, and nothing in the flat that we could find. Think very carefully, take your time and go over exactly what you saw again. Do it aloud if you like, it often helps.’
Slightly self-consciously John described the scene. 
‘The postman went into a couple of houses along the road…’
‘Describe him. Anything unusual?’
‘Not really, quite small, blue uniform, cap pulled down over his eyes, canvas satchel over his shoulder, wodge of letters in his hand, a typical postie.’
John thought for a moment. ‘He got to the door and went in. Hang on, why would he need to go in and how, if it was locked? 
‘Excellent, we’re getting somewhere. Carry on.’
‘A couple of minutes later he came out, pulled the door up, took some letters into the shop and then continued his delivery along the road.’
‘Jim, tomorrow get onto the local sorting office and find out who was doing that round on that day,’ he looked at John.
‘About what time?’
John looked at his notes. ‘Here it is, Day 2 postman 10.30.’
‘Did any of you hear anything, gunshot, car backfiring?’
‘Nothing at all.’
‘Gentlemen, I think we may possibly have a suspect for our killer but that is as far as it goes. It is all very circumstantial. We need more evidence. So, plan for tomorrow. Jim get onto the post-office, John go back to the shop and see if they can give you a better description of the postman and I will contact 5 to see if they know anything about the mysterious woman on the train. Any questions, comments, observations?’ He looked around the table. ‘Until tomorrow then. None of that should take long, so we’ll meet at 11.00. Hang on, before you go, did anyone see his cheque book? If it is not in his case or in his pockets, then whoever did this took it with them. Easy to put in a post-bag along with any bills that might have been lying on the floor. Those cheques were his identification so who has them now and for what purpose? Jim, just to make sure, can you ask the Doctor if he saw it anywhere? OK 11 tomorrow.’














