
CHAPTER 31
The following morning George rang Bill Laurie at MI5, now situated at Blenheim Palace, north of Oxford.
‘Morning George, it’s been a long time. How are things?’
George was wary of discussing details over an unsecure line so spoke in code just in case. 
I’m well thanks. I’m ringing on a personal matter. I have come into some money, a legacy from an old aunt, and I’m looking to invest it somewhere. Your company was suggested, so can we get together sometime to discuss the possibility.  I can come to your offices near Woodstock if that helps.’
Bill quickly understood the situation. ‘Glad to oblige. How soon? Can’t have money standing idle can we. Will tomorrow at noon be OK? How will you be travelling; do you want picking up at Oxford station?’
‘Noon will be fine, I’ll drive.’
‘Look forward to seeing you.’
Early the following morning, after Jim had contacted the local sorting office about the postman and had asked the doctor about the cheque book, both he and George were driven in an unmarked car out of London on the A40 to Oxford where they took the A44 towards Chipping Norton, reaching Blenheim Palace just after 11.30. They drove through the pillared gateway up a long drive, but as they reached the main house, they peeled off to the left and went down the side and around the back.  They knocked on a green painted door set into the wall and were greeted by a young lady dressed very conservatively.
‘Sorry we are a bit early, but we have an appointment with Wing Commander Laurie.’
‘You are expected sir. You may not be aware perhaps that Bill has been promoted since you last met. He is now a Group Captain.’
‘Dizzy heights indeed.’
Bill came to the doorway. ‘Morning George, thought I recognised your dulcet tones.’
‘Just been given the news. Congratulations on the promotion.’
‘Happened a while back now, but it won’t make any difference. Never hidden behind titles or ranks anyway. The only advantage is that when this is over, and they eventually get rid of me, my pension will be higher. Come into the office, it’s a bit different from the one we had in the Scrubs. 
George introduced Jim and then explained exactly what had been going on. 
‘I understand that we were given the job of following Edwards, as we now call him, by you. Is that right?’
‘It is, we had it on good authority that someone was going to enter the country on a specific mission, but we weren’t sure if it was anything more than a watch and wait exercise.  So that, and the fact that we didn’t really have the manpower to follow it through, put it more in your area than ours. You were quick to remember the Edwards name though, well spotted. That was introduced years ago when we asked you lot to keep an eye open for anyone passing those cheques, but we were never sure they would ever be used, so when it cropped up in your investigation it came as a surprise. 
‘Bill, before you go on, you should know that we found Edwards dead in the flat we followed him to in London. We are making all the necessary enquiries, but it may have some bearing on your case and, incidentally, the chequebook you mentioned is missing. Wasn’t in his cases, or on his person and the Doctor has confirmed that he didn’t see it lying round either. He certainly had it in the hotel in Penzance, so he could have lost it there or on the journey, but I doubt it, although I’ll get it checked anyway. That means, that someone else has it, presumably for identification purposes.’
‘Wow, I wasn’t expecting that although it does answer a question for me. He was expected to visit one of our contacts but the day after he arrived in London someone turned up in his place. We didn’t know at the time about his death, so this explains it. That’s very interesting about the cheques. I think you’re right. Whoever it is will be unlikely to use them for payment or getting cash, so ID seems the most likely reason.  It would seem that we have been working on the same operation from two different angles. Inadvertently, you’ve stumbled on one we set up almost ten years ago. When we handed this to you, we had no idea that they would coincide. 
It was only when you rang your office from Penzance, and it was picked up by one of our people, that we realised it precisely matched the method of entry that we had been given by our source. We asked your lot to send someone to Scilly, you as it happens, to observe just in case, not really thinking that anything would come of it because it was all a bit farfetched, but the use of the named chequebook took it to a different level, and we then became interested for other reasons.
George raised his eyebrows. ‘Yes, sorry George, we do monitor your phone calls, but like many others, I have to say. So, don’t be alarmed, you are not alone.’
When the name was flagged up, we made sure we got someone on that train, especially as you mentioned the other two people in the compartment and that Edwards had seemingly made a point of choosing the same one. You see we may have an interest in the other man.’ 
‘So that was the point of the note I was given. I thought it a bit odd at the time, but this explains it.’ 
‘Alison is very good isn’t she. What role was she taking this time?’
‘A flustered rambler who had rushed to catch the train. Strangely, nobody in the carriage seemed to take any notice of her despite her slightly dishevelled state. She left the train at Reading when the man got off. She made a very convincing impromptu departure.’
‘Yes, she would have done. She was to get off at any station along the line and follow him. I know precisely what’s she doing now. 
This shooting in London was certainly not something we had considered, and I suspect neither had you, so we are both in the dark. I think I need to fill you in our side of this operation. To cut a very long story short, and to put it simply, for a number of years, with the help of a couple of people in the Shires, we have been monitoring potential fifth columnists already in the country. That reminds me, I need to make a phone call to inform our contact about developments. 
Over time we have identified almost five hundred of them, some well-known and others not.  As yet, we have not made any arrests because they continue to lead us to others, but as the balance of the war has tipped towards us since Alamein, the numbers of active members have certainly fallen off so what we have left now are the hardcore. We don’t really understand their motives other than political, as in general they are not the type of people to take up arms, but they have been a nuisance. Until now of course. This latest incident puts a different slant on things. I think it is important that we now work together and pool information. I’ll give you my direct number, but only phone me under extreme circumstances because you may be overheard, although, thinking about it we could retain the pretence of our share dealings, at least in the short term. I cannot offer you anyone on the ground at the moment, but I can supply you with all the pertinent information.’
‘That would be very useful, and I will of course do the same. Can I ask where you are getting your tipoffs from?’
‘You can ask, but I won’t tell you. That is very much on a need to know basis, and sorry George, you don’t need to know. Let’s just say they are coming from someone very high up in the German hierarchy via the Polish Government in exile. Now how about lunch before you go back?’
After George left, Bill phoned Cynthia.
‘Hello, Cynthia, you had a visit from some of my team last week and one of the group told you about a Mr Edwards. Well, he won’t be coming. He was shot in London. Special Branch are now working with us on this. We have no idea who did it, but it certainly explains why it was Davies and not Edwards turning up at your house the other day, although everything pointed to him coming to you at some point. I’ll be in touch when I get more details. Bye for now. Thinking about it, Davies must have known when he was on the train what would happen to Edwards otherwise why take his place. We need to bear that in mind.’

When George returned for the afternoon briefing there were a few surprises waiting for him. 
‘Sir,’ said Bert, ‘I contacted both the electric and gas services as you asked and they both confirmed that supplies had been reinstated two weeks ago and the initial payments had been done beforehand. So that would suggest this has been planned well in advance. And there is something else. Jim, you had a call from the post-office. 
‘Yes, they were adamant there was no postal delivery scheduled for that day at the time we gave them. According to them, the deliveries would have been made long before that. They traced the postman on duty, and he confirmed he had finished by about 10.00 and was back in the sorting office by noon. 
‘And now,’ said Bert, ‘the icing on the cake.’ He paused deliberately before saying, ‘the Chief Inspector at St Johns got a good description of the postman from the beat bobby who said that whoever it was, they were wearing studs in their ears.’
‘Really, a woman?’ said George,’ that’s astonishing, I had never even considered that as a possibility. That changes things. Although she may be part of a bigger group, we could now be looking for a female assassin…who is still out there. 
Questions still remain though, why go to all the trouble of dropping Edwards off in such a clandestine way, arrange for him to come to London, and then kill him off almost immediately. Was this some sort of decoy plan and if so, is something happening elsewhere, or had he served a purpose and needed to be silenced. I’ll let Bill know immediately because this may have some bearing on his own operation. I’ll probably have to go to Blenheim again. Give it some thought and see if you can come up with any ideas. Excuse me a minute.’
He went to his office and rang Bill.
‘Hi Bill, with regards the share dealings we were discussing this morning. It would seem that this is more urgent than I first thought because of death duties and other things. Not something I can really discuss over the phone because you need to see the paperwork. Any chance we can meet?’
‘As it happens, I have to be at our old London office tomorrow, the one before our most recent, so see you there at about 11.00, subject to the trains being on time of course. There will be someone there to let you in if I’m delayed. I’ll bring a few investment ideas with me. See you then. Bye.’  
George was able to work that out. In 1934 MI5 had moved from their premises in Cromwell Rd, to Thames House on Millbank, before going to Wormwood Scrubs in 1939 for a year. So, Thames House at 11.00. Top floor of the South Block if he remembered correctly.
He returned to the briefing room.  ‘Bert, could you contact the Long Boat Inn in Penzance and Great Western lost property to see if anyone found a Martins Bank cheque book in the name of T.G.Edwards and let me know as soon as possible, thanks?’




















