
CHAPTER 32
Bill was already in the office when George arrived.
‘Morning Bill. I’ve got some information that may have a bearing on your operation as well as ours. According to the Constable covering that area, the postman, who we’ve identified as being the only person who entered the building, was in fact a woman. Unfortunately, we have no detailed description beyond the fact that she was of medium height and had studs in her ears, so not a lot to go on. The locals from St Johns have done some house to house enquiries but got nothing, beyond the fact that she continued to deliver post further down the road. A very good disguise, because who takes notice of a postman doing their job. Nobody saw her once she got to Gloucester Place. For all we know there could have been a car waiting for her around the corner, and as it’s a main road she could easily have got away. She could even have walked back to the Edgeware Rd and left via the A5.  At present, her role in this is entirely circumstantial. Even though we know she could have been involved, we have no direct evidence.  However, I had a thought on our way here. There has been a woman tangled up in this from the very beginning who we have completely disregarded. What about the one who was in the same compartment with me on the train. Alison took an interest in the man on your instructions, Jim and I followed Edwards. So, was the woman an innocent bystander who just happened to be in that compartment or were all three of them in it together. My gut reaction says the latter.’
George started walking around the office talking it through to himself and ignoring the others. ‘Let’s go back to the beginning and look at this again. The train at Penzance was almost empty so there were plenty of places to sit, they were both on the train before Edwards arrived, and we know that he was apparently searching for a specific carriage. Thinking about it, there were already two cases identical to Edwards on the luggage rack and he had placed his next to them. When we found them in his room, they did not contain a radio or anything else suspicious as we were led to believe, only books in one to give the impression of weight and clothes in the other. We know that the switch was likely to have happened in the Box tunnel when it went dark for a couple of minutes. For someone to have gone to the trouble of packing the case with books suggests that this was well-ordered and pre-planned. Jim and I were too intent on watching Edwards, so we did not see either of the others struggling with a heavy case. Although, hang on.’ He turned to Jim. ‘Wasn’t there a porter carrying a case for a lady further along the platform, when you went into the Ticket Office.’
‘Sorry, George, can’t be sure of that. I was concentrating on Edwards. There could have been.’
‘But why could that be significant George?’ asked Bill.
‘Well, if I’m right, why was the case so heavy for her at Penzance that she required the help of a porter, but light enough for her to take it off the rack and refuse any help at Goring. It had to be that the case she was carrying then did not contain the books. So, what was in it. A radio or something else. I don’t think it was a radio, because that would also be heavy, so whatever it was it had to be lighter.
I think we’ve been looking at this from the wrong angle. Edwards was simply a decoy, a highly elaborate one it must be said, but all our attention has been on him, Bill you had information about the other man Davies, but we all ignored the woman.  We need to find her.’
‘OK’, said Bill, ‘let’s go along with your theory, because at present we don’t have much else. But if it has been so well planned the question of Why still remains. Whoever they are have tapped into contacts in Germany in order to get Edwards here. They also knew that we would be informed that he was coming and by what route. They would realise that we would have taken an interest albeit in our case a cursory one, because of the source, hence the need to confuse us with seemingly non-descript extras at Penzance, I’ll explain our interest in Davies in a minute.  Cases are exchanged and Edwards is shot because he simply becomes surplus to requirements and needs to be kept quiet. All very plausible, but where do we go from here. It still comes back to Why. Our interest in the other man comes from the operation I told you about at Blenheim, about the fifth columnists. We had no idea where he was until you alerted us at Penzance. We know precisely where he is now, but we are still watching him. He is using the name Young. We need to get someone to Goring to make some enquiries about the woman. The trail may be cold, but it’s a start. I want this between us, not the local police. This is clearly a security matter, and a serious one considering the lengths to which they’ve gone in covering their tracks, so the fewer who know the better. Can you send a team to Goring and I will sort out my contacts and Alison? This building is probably being watched, so let’s keep in regular communication by phone using the investment ruse, and I’ll think of somewhere obscure where we can meet if we have to. I’m not sure that this is the best place, because you are known. Are you alright with that?’
‘All makes sense. I presume I can leave messages with your secretary.’
‘Yes. We also need to consider very carefully about what their focus is. Disruption, political agitation or something more serious. We’ll get both our teams to think out of the box and come up with some ideas. The other problem is that we have no idea of a possible time scale. Should we expect something sooner rather than later. I’m better placed to get the intelligence reports, so I’ll have to arrange clearance so you can see them as well. Jim, you’ve been very quiet. Do you have anything to add?’
‘No, I think it’s a good plan of action. I’ll get some of the lads down to Goring as soon as I get back. They can start tomorrow.’
‘Well, that seems a good place to conclude. Just one point, if they are ruthless enough to kill one of their own, watch you back.’


















