
CHAPTER 33
As it happened Young, as he was still calling himself, didn’t stay long. Cynthia still could not understand why he had not recognised her. It had been some years ago, but she wouldn’t have changed that much. She invited him indoors and took him into the lounge. As she did so, the doorbell rang.
‘Hello, Cynthia. Thought I would surprise you and pop in for coffee. I’ve just got the bus from Reading and thought I’d see how you were. How’re things? Oh, by the way, Bill sends his regards.’ Alison said in a louder than usual voice. 
‘Hi, Sarah,’ said Cynthia plucking a name out of the air. ‘Great to see you. I’m very well thanks, but I’m really sorry, I’ve got someone with me the moment, so I am not sure when I’ll be free. Do you want to call back later or can you give me a second to get my diary and we’ll fix a date and meet somewhere?  It’s such a shame you’ve come all this way for a wasted journey.’
‘Never mind. My own fault. Let’s make a date and then I’ll get out of your way and go for a walk before catching the bus back.’
Cynthia made a point of going for her diary and taking it to Alison. ‘How about next Tuesday?’ Do you want to come here, or shall we meet somewhere else?’
‘Tuesday would be good. If you let me have your phone number, I’ll call you to arrange a place. I’m really sorry to have disturbed you but good to have had a quick chat. Until Tuesday then. Oh, phone number.’
‘Cynthia wrote down her number and passed it across. As she did so, Alison jotted four words on an adjacent pad…’I’m outside if needed,’
‘Many thanks, see you next week.’
She turned and retraced her steps and walked towards the shop.
Cynthia returned to the lounge.
‘Sorry about that, an old friend from school out this way for a walk. Now, how can I help you. I don’t even know your name?’
‘Young,’ your ladyship.
‘Oh, I was expecting a Mr Edwards.’
‘Yes, sorry about that. He will be delayed. It’s a shame we did not talk before your friend arrived, because I am not staying long, and you could have had your coffee with her.’
‘Oh, please forgive me. I’ve not offered you anything. Would you like tea of coffee?’
‘Very kind, but no thanks. I understand from my colleagues that you can be trusted, and I have been instructed to leave this suitcase here if I may. It will be collected by someone else, but I have no idea who that will be or when. There is nothing suspicious inside, it’s not a bomb or anything,’ he smiled, ‘but I’ve no idea what it contains. Will that be alright?’
‘Of course. Leave it there and I’ll put it in the study later. Will the person collecting it have any form of identification?’
‘Not that I know of. They will simply arrive. The suitcase in itself is a form of ID.’
‘Good point. Whoever comes, is going to know that it’s here.’
‘I’ll take my leave then.’ He looked at his watch. ‘If I’m quick I should be able to get the next bus back. A pleasure meeting you,’ he said shaking her hand.
‘Likewise. We may meet again sometime.’
‘Perhaps,’ he said and left to catch the bus.
As far as Cynthia was concerned all the elements were coming together and beginning to make sense, the warning phone call from Louise, the urgent meeting with Snowden and the arrival of Davies…who wasn’t Young, or even Edwards. ‘What next?’ she pondered.

Alison had been waiting around the corner for his exit. She too would get on the same bus but would leave it until the last minute.  As it happened, they were the only ones on it for the first few stops and typically British, they made a point of ignoring each other. When they arrived in Reading, they both made their way to the hotel. Alison would really have liked to have explored a little, but she needed to keep an eye on Young. She wasn’t sure whether she would have to stay another night, but when Young went up to his room, she took the opportunity of collecting her things and returning to the foyer just in case she had to move quickly. It was an hour before she saw him coming down the stairs again with no baggage because the case had been handed over. He stood by the door and waited until a small car pulled up in front of the hotel on the other side of the road. He walked across, got in the back and was driven away. 
Alison had done as much as she could and there was no way she could follow him, even in a taxi. She resisted the temptation of looking around the town and so having already paid her bill the night before, she picked up her bag, returned to the station to collect her rucksack and stick from left luggage, bought a single ticket and walked under the subway to catch the next train to London. 

While Young and Alison were travelling back to Reading, Cynthia phoned Bill and explained what had happened. 
‘Intriguing,’ said Bill ‘this is all getting very complicated. I think you and I need to get together with George and talk over various options. Can you come up to London with Richard on his usual commute one morning? It will look less suspicious than if you came alone. I can gather the teams together and go over this again. I do know that George is making enquiries about the lady on the train, so we may have more to report on. I don’t want you to come to the office in case you’re followed. Can you come on Tuesday for 11.30 as you’ve already made a fictitious arrangement with ‘Sarah’ as you know her?’ Dame Myra Hess will be giving one of her lunchtime concerts at the National Gallery. Get there early to join the queue as a normal concert goer, but when you get into the building turn immediately left. We will have someone there looking out for you. There is a meeting room off the main entrance which we sometimes use. If anyone is watching they may assume that you are visiting the toilets which are down the same corridor. 
‘I’ll see you there then. I presume Richard goes to work as normal.’
‘Yes, everything as standard. Just take the underground rather than a taxi. You’ll have someone with you.’














