
CHAPTER 34
Enquiries in the Goring area had proved fruitless. The station staff could not remember anything, and as one pointed out, there were a lot of grey-haired old ladies in the area using the trains and carrying bags or cases, so it was nothing unusual to see them. The station was also on the edge of the village so didn’t get much passing traffic with casual observers. They would have to think again.
The investigations now centred on the Why. 

Cynthia travelled up to London on the Tuesday with Richard. The train was surprisingly crowded, and they had to stand in the corridor until they were able to get a seat when some people left at Reading. 
Seeing Cynthia’s reaction Richard commented, ‘This is usual, but you get used to it. Are we coming back together, or shall I see you at home?’
‘I’m not sure how long the meeting will go on for.’
‘I’ll get back my usual time. If you are earlier, take the car and pick me up later. If I’m home first, I’ll collect you. Phone from the call box.
When they reached Paddington, Richard went through the ticket gates straight ahead to the Circle Line while Cynthia peeled off towards the Bakerloo. As she crossed the concourse, she heard someone call her name. She turned to her left to see Alison waving to her. 
‘Hi Cynthia,’ she said, and then quietly, ‘as we had already arranged to meet, I have been sent to collect you. Act normally, you’ve been followed since you left the train. We have some time to kill, so let’s have that coffee anyway.’
They went into the underground, took the escalator down to the Bakerloo Line and turned right onto the south-bound platform. On the way Alison formally introduced herself.
‘I’m Alison, not Sarah, but excellent improvisation the other day. You might like to know that I followed him back to the hotel, but then lost him when he later got into a car.’ 
A blast of air swept into the station indicating the arrival of the train. They alighted at Charing Cross and instead of going straight to the National Gallery, they went onto the Strand and into the Lyons Corner house, followed by their tail.
‘I always think it strange that tea is rationed, yet coffee isn’t.’ remarked Alison, ‘especially when we are a nation of tea drinkers. Perhaps that’s it, we are drinking too much tea,’ she smiled.
This sparked a conversation about what constitutes a good coffee, and both agreed that they could cope with anything except Camp coffee, a dark brown syrupy liquid which contained far more chicory extract than it did coffee and came in a bottle. They both shuddered amusingly at the thought. 
‘These concerts by Dame Myra are very popular, so we will have to line up with the other patrons. As we are being followed, we can’t really jump the queue, but we should be able to lose him once we are inside. Someone is taking a keen interest in you all of a sudden. He can’t be the only one, so I’ll play the game of spotting the others. I have to say, this one behind us is not very good at it.’ 
‘I had the same treatment some years ago when I was first approached by the group. They weren’t very good then either. Spent days sitting in the same car being observed by our post-mistress. They were looking to see who I contacted and whether or not I was genuine in wanting to help them. I think recent events must have sparked their interest again. Can I play the game as well?’
‘Feel free. Who do you think?’
‘The man with the newspaper and pipe by the door?’
‘No, he was here when we arrived. He wouldn’t have known that we would come in here. Have another go. There is one who is fairly obvious and very close to us.’
Cynthia looked around, but all she could see was a well-dressed lady repeatedly leaning down to feed her dog titbits under the table.  Cynthia surreptitiously nodded in her direction.
‘Correct,’ said Alison ‘She’s bending down to the dog to listen to us. Watch what you say. We’ll see if they both leave when we do.’
After a time spent in small talk, they paid their bill, left the building and walked towards Trafalgar Square, followed independently by both their watchers.   Acknowledging Nelson perched high on his column Cynthia looked sideways at Alison and simply said ‘I wonder what he thinks of the present situation?’
‘Not a lot I would have thought. At least he’s survived the bombing,’ she smiled and set off across to the north side of the line which was long and extended around the corner into Charing Cross Road. They could no longer see the lady with the dog, but their other minder waited awhile and joined about six places back. After the doors opened, they shuffled alongside the exterior wall, up the steps and into the building nodding to the man regulating the queue. Alison glanced behind them and seeing a gap, tapped Cynthia on the arm and immediately turned left. She paused just a moment to make sure they had not been seen and watched as the man following them went straight ahead and up the stone steps.
Slightly disappointed about missing the concert, they walked further along the corridor to the meeting room. 























