
CHAPTER 35 
The meeting room was full of smoke, presumably a testament to a lot of intense thinking before they had arrived Cynthia thought. 
‘Welcome, sorry about the smoke!’ said Bill, waving his arms in a vain attempt at wafting some of it away. ‘Grab a coffee and I’ll introduce you to the others.’
He went around presenting them in turn. ‘This is George and Jim from Special Branch. They did the trailing from Penzance. Bert, he found Edwards body. Hannah, Jane and Alison you know, and you have met Felicity at the office. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Lady Cynthia Childreth, our help in the shires who I have told you about,’ he smiled and collected his cup and sat at the table.
Cynthia acknowledged them all as George, Jim and Bert shook her hand.
‘Let’s get down to business. We have this room for as long as we need it and we won’t be thrown out when the concert concludes, however when we finish, we will have to leave separately from the various other entrances so that we’re not seen together. 
There are a number of issues we need to consider. I don’t need to remind you that what we are about to discuss is highly confidential. I’ll list them and we can then take them in turn. Felicity will take notes and distribute them later. First, what is this all about? Second, what is the time scale? Third, why is Cynthia’s role important to them? Anything else?’ He looked at everyone in turn. 
‘OK, let’s start with the why. Why the elaborate planning, not only in getting Edwards into the country to then eliminate him, but also setting up Cynthia over the past years, which we were partly responsible for of course.’
‘Whatever it is, it has to be important enough to go to such lengths,’ reflected George. ‘This has obviously been planned for years, not necessarily this specific task but the opportunity to carry out some act of terrorism. Cynthia, if I may address you as such your Ladyship, has been a sleeper now for many years. I can’t believe her inaction to this point is simply due to them assessing her allegiance to their cause.’
‘Please call me what you like George, I answer to anything.’ Cynthia smiled and added some levity to the proceedings. ‘Something to remember, is that at no time until very recently have I been given any specific instructions. All I have is a well locked suitcase in my office. I am simply to wait again, but for what reason I have no idea. The parties were supposed to be a recruiting exercise, but not sure how successful they were, and the arrival of Mosley at the last party was a piece of theatre. He had no need to come to ask me about my willingness to help out, as he had already been told by the others, and he could easily have had a conversation over the phone. Yet he was eager to accept our invitation, I say our, because it was Bill’s idea. Perhaps the intention was to show himself to Gerda and the others to demonstrate that there was a National Socialist presence in the country. Despite our fears, at no time did he use the occasion to make any political statements, he simply went around the groups chatting. It was all very much underplayed. I think the fact that he simply drifted away at the end of the evening was significant. If I can offer my own, perhaps amateurish opinion, I don’t think he has anything to do with what is about to happen.’
‘You could be right,’ said Bill, ‘he made no attempt to contact the others after the party, or since he has been released. Like you, I would have thought that he would have taken some action or made contact by now if he was involved. At the party he just wanted to be certain of a safe house if needed. At least we know that much.’
‘Let’s go back. What do we think their target or targets are? They’re not intending to report back to Germany because there was no radio, despite the information to the contrary, which in itself is suggestive, for instance is there another agent in the country we haven’t as yet identified, who has a radio already here. Personally, I don’t think that’s possible because we rounded them all up at the beginning of the war, but it’s worth bearing in mind. If we assume that there is no means of communication, it can’t have anything to do with relaying tactical, or strategic information, so what are we left with?’
‘Basic terrorism, a bombing for instance,’ suggested George.
‘What about assassination or kidnap?’ proposed Jim. 
‘Both worth bearing in mind. A bomb would require access to materials, and I am not sure that any of those we know have the skills to make one. Assassination, kidnapping is worth considering. They have already carried out the killing of Edwards, so they are not averse to it. But I am not sure what they would gain by setting up a kidnap. Who would they hold to ransom and for what purpose?  I think we can discard that. For now, let’s go with assassination. Call out likely targets.’
Suggestions came from all around the table. The Royals, Churchill, the Cabinet, Military Commanders…
‘No pressure then,’ Bill smiled. ‘There would be a public backlash if the Royals were taken out. It would be counter-productive, except in the terms of morale, unless of course they wanted to put something or someone else in their place, but that would still require a lot of backing and the support of the people, which they wouldn’t get. There are not that many republicans in the country and certainly only a very few who would want a dictatorship.  The someone else could have been Mosley a few years ago, but unlikely now. Churchill?’
‘Possible,’ said Hannah, ‘but he is well protected, and nobody outside of his immediate circle is ever sure of his movements. Even some of his radio broadcasts are done by his voice double so he can be somewhere else.’
‘Cabinet Ministers. Eden, but who would want to dispatch the Foreign Secretary? Atlee, I doubt it. Although he is in the Cabinet, he tends to concentrate on Home affairs rather than war strategy. Beaverbrook? He’s Lord Privy Seal so outside of the Cabinet. Can’t really think of him being a likely target can you.’ He looked around the table at shaking heads. So, that leaves us military commanders. This is an awful thing to say, but who do we have worthy of assassination?’
‘I would have thought we need to look at those at the centre of strategic planning,’ said George. ‘We have to narrow the list down, so I think we can ignore the RAF and the Navy hierarchy as I would suggest that although there will be the need for air cover and naval support, the main focus in the war from now on will be on land forces. So, shall we take out Dowding and Harris, unless there is a revenge element behind this, and Mountbatten. Portal has just died.’
‘Makes sense. So, who does that leave us with and where are they, or expected to be in the near future?’
‘No idea where they’ll be but we would need to check on Alan Brooke as CIGS, Eisenhower, Monty, Auchinleck and Alexander. Wavell can come off the list as he is in India as Viceroy so presumably, he will remain there. So, that’s leaves us with just five. What do you think? We are making a big assumption here, but I think it is worth the risk. We can keep a watch on the others and liaise with Churchill’s personal protection which comes under our remit.’
‘In the meantime,’ interrupted Bill, ‘I’ll make sure the Household Cavalry maintain extra vigilance on the Royals. I might also have a word with Jimmy Coats who was in charge of their protection until a couple of years ago until he handed over responsibility to the Composite Regiment.
If we are happy with that, we need to do some research. Hannah, can you take Ike and Monty; Jane, Brooke and Auchinleck, and Alison, Alexander. We need to know where they are likely to be in the next few months other than with their regiments. For instance, will they be attending any civil events, or dinners or the like?  If you come up against any high-level security issues refer them to me. I don’t know about anyone else, but I have a gut feeling that this has something to do with Monty and Ike. We need to work fast on this, so we’ll meet at my office in 48 hours. Cynthia, you will be very welcome, but you don’t need to attend. We will keep you informed on a need to know basis. I suggest that your role is remaining in contact with the group. The less you are seen with us, the less likely that they will suspect anything.’
‘I’m more than happy with that. I cannot contribute to your planning, so will let you know as soon as any happens at my end. However, I am a little concerned about the extra interest they seem to be taking in my movements. It is rather disconcerting.’
‘Don’t worry, we’ll have that covered. I’ll put a few more people in your area. If there are any problems, just call, anytime. There will always be someone at the other end who can contact me.’
‘What do I do about the suitcase?’
‘Good point, I’d forgotten about that. I’ll send Edwin down on some pretext. He is good with locks and can get into it without anyone ever realising that it has been opened. Felicity, can you organise that for tomorrow if possible.’ He looked at Cynthia, ‘will you be in?’
‘Yes, but if I have to go out Mary will be there. She is up to date and knows Edwin.’
‘Good. So, ladies and gentlemen, is there anything else anyone would like to add?  Bert, you’ve not said anything. Are you OK with this?’
‘Absolutely sir, I’ll take my orders from George and Jim anyway, so no problem.’
‘Fine, now we cannot leave together so stay here for a second.’
He left the room and returned with the security official who had been at the top of the steps when Cynthia and Alison had arrived. ‘Andy is one of ours and knows this building well. He will take you to the various exits and make sure that you leave securely and separately. Safe journey home.’
All but Bill and George followed Andy through the building, they continued their discussions for a little longer to allow the others time to leave. Hannah, Alison and Bert left at intervals via Charing Cross Road and Jane, Cynthia and Jim onto Pall Mall. They went their own separate ways without acknowledgment. Cynthia, concerned that she might still be watched, immediately hailed a passing taxi and returned to Paddington. It was only then that she was spotted by the same young man who had been in the coffee shop earlier in the day and was now standing against the bookstall. He calmly folded his newspaper and followed her onto the Newbury train. When the train stopped at Theale, she alighted and he continued, obviously satisfied that he knew where she was going. As the car had gone, she rang Richard from the phone box, and he came to collect her as arranged.
‘You look all in,’ he said, ‘are you OK?’
‘It has been an intense afternoon and I think I was followed again.’
‘Did anyone else get off here?’
‘No,’
‘In that case maybe it’s your imagination. I think you could do with a stiff drink.’

When the man reached Newbury station, he made a phone call giving no name.
‘Not sure what to make of this but I lost her in the National Gallery, and she was not in the room listening to the music. There was no point in waiting because she could have gone anywhere, so I waited at Paddington and picked her up on her return journey. She got off at Theale as expected.  I couldn’t really follow her as I would have been the only other person getting off, and anyway, I knew where she was going. I just can’t account for the three hours in between. I think we need to put a bigger team on her. I’ll ring again tomorrow for further instructions.’ 
‘No hang on a second. I can give you an answer now.’
At the other end the recipient of the call turned to his companion. 
‘She is now at home, but he lost her for three hours. The suggestion is that we increase her surveillance. What do you think?’
‘Good idea, you deal with it. But make it a little less obvious this time. No cars parked in the road.’
‘We agree. Get someone into the village tomorrow morning, but make sure they are less evident this time.’
‘Will do,’ came the reply before ringing off.




