
CHAPTER 36
The following day Edwin arrived at the house driving a small Morris van with Painter and Decorator emblazoned on the side. Cynthia had just gone across to the shop, so Mary took him into the office and left him with the suitcase.
Cynthia returned a couple of minutes later with news from Gladys. 
‘Mary are you there?’ she called from the back door.
‘Whose is the van outside, can’t remember requiring any painting done?’
‘That’s Edwin. He’s in the office unlocking the case.’
‘News from Gladys. There have been two people in the shop this morning asking after me. A lady dressed as a walker and a man on a bicycle.  They arrived independently but asked where I lived and if I was at home today. I’m sure they were not from Bill, because he would have told us, but I can always check with Edwin.’
Edwin called from the office. ‘Cynthia, Mary, can you come here please, you might be interested in this?’
The opened case lay on the floor in front of them.
Edwin smiled. ‘Not a difficult lock to pick. Take a look at the contents.’
The case contained no books, no radio, no bomb making equipment, just an assortment of lady’s clothes. ‘What an anti-climax,’ commented Cynthia, ’I have to be honest I was expecting something a little more exciting or clandestine.’
‘Can I have a closer look, or do we need to keep it as it is?’
‘You can, but just be careful.’
She removed one or two items from the top to reveal blouses, skirts, cardigans, and a bag of toiletries. 
‘This is a bag packed for going away and notice, the labels have been removed.’
‘From the sizes, can you work out how big this woman would be?’
She carefully lifted one of the cardigans and spread it out on the table. 
‘About that size,’ she joked. ‘No seriously, I would have thought 5 foot 6 or 7. Do you agree Mary? It’s not that big. Shame there are no shoes to give us a better indication. Raises interesting questions though doesn’t it. Why did Davies leave it here and who is going to collect it?’
‘I’ll just lock this up again and let Bill know about the contents when I get back. Could you fold the cardigan back as it was please?’ He passed it over to her.
‘Why don’t you ring him from upstairs. I want to speak to him as well.’
Edwin relocked the case and put his lock pick back into his pocket and then joined Cynthia in the bedroom as she was dialling Bill’s number.
‘Morning Bill, Edwin would like a word in a second, but can I ask if you’ve sent any of your protection officers down here this morning. Gladys saw a couple of strangers earlier, so I just wanted to check?’
‘No, nothing to do with us. Take care, it must be the opposition. I’ll have someone there this afternoon but as usual, neither you nor Gladys will notice them,’ he laughed.
‘I wouldn’t bet on that. She can spot a stranger from half a mile. Here’s Edwin, ‘bye.’
Edwin explained about the contents of the case.
‘Interesting,’ said Bill. ‘Make sure that nobody will know that you’ve opened it, and then can you stay with Cynthia until I get someone else on site this afternoon. Take a paintbrush or something out of the van and make yourself useful,’ he sniggered and rang off.
Edwin chuckled and rather than a brush, went off to pick up a cup of coffee. 
Bill rang back after lunch and spoke to Mary. ‘Just to let you know that our people are in place, two of them, so can you tell Edwin he can stand down and drive back.’ 
Edwin left and both Cynthia and Mary took the opportunity to walk around the village for no purpose other than to see if they could spot them; something to relieve the boredom. He was right. Apart from one lady who had set up an easel and was sketching the pub and an elderly man laying flowers on a stone in the churchyard, nobody else sprang out. ‘Unlikely to be them,’ Mary commented, ‘too old.’
There was no sign of either the walker or the cyclist

On Thursday, the team, minus Cynthia and Bert, gathered in Bill’s office. 
‘Coffee will be here shortly. OK, what have we found since Tuesday? Let’s go around the table. Jane?’
‘Well Alan Brooke as Chief of the General Staff is based in the War Office and spends a lot of time in the Cabinet War rooms, and is driven to his flat in Whitehall Gardens, so apart from the odd leave in Hampshire he is in London. A possible. Auchinleck is presently in India, so unlikely.’
‘Alison?’
‘Alexander is involved in the Italian campaign, so again unlikely.
‘Hannah?’
‘Montgomery is in London with 21st Army Group and SHAEF in Norfolk House in St James Square, and by all accounts Eisenhower will be there from January, so that could put both of them in the frame.’
‘So, if we are prepared to go down this route, we are left with three possible targets. I am not sure that Brooke leaves London much and anyway is protected, but Ike and Monty do. They both like meeting their troops. He looked at George. ‘I realise it might be difficult for security reasons, but is it possible to find out about their movements over the next few months?’
‘I’ll make some enquiries and get back to you, although it might take time. What are we looking for exactly?’
‘Any event where they are either in the public eye, or doing a troop inspection, or overseeing an exercise. Anywhere which makes them potentially vulnerable. Incidentally, just for the record I contacted Jimmy Coates and the present officer commanding Household Regiment, and they’ve both assured me the security around the Royal family is very tight. 
Since we met on Tuesday, we have had another unusual development. I sent Edwin to unlock the case that was left with Cynthia. Any guesses as to what it contained? No?’ he paused, ‘lady’s clothes. Nothing else. Now, on the surface that might seem to be strange and rather bizarre, but it has to fit into the scheme of things somewhere. So, bear it in mind.’
The coffee arrived and they took a short break. 
‘George, any more news on the Edwards murder?’
‘No progress at all. None of the cheques have been used and, as we know, the trail at Goring went cold. Nobody can recall the lady or the car that was waiting for her.’
‘Don’t you think it’s significant that everything seems to come back to this mysterious lady,’ suggested Jim. ‘She was on the train and we didn’t take any notice of her, and she wasn’t seen when she got off.  But we do know that it was a woman who entered Edwards flat as the postman, and women’s clothes have been left with Cynthia. As well as thinking about the potential targets, perhaps we ought to consider the women we already know of who could be behind this. Remember Cynthia did say some time ago that she felt the most enthusiastic and fervent members of the group were the wives, and not the husbands. We can ignore the German ladies, because they cannot leave the country, so that leaves Marjorie Snowden, Louise Harrington and Megan Davies. It might simply be a shot in the dark and they could all be totally innocent, but I think we ought to concentrate on them, at least until we can be certain that they have no part to play.’ He looked at George. ‘What do you think?’
‘Well it can’t do any harm. We don’t have any other leads. It has to have something to do with the group because they have been ever present throughout this whole thing. I’m not sure we know where they live so I’ll get someone onto it when we get back to the office.’ 
‘Thanks for that suggestion Jim,’ said Bill.
He looked around at everybody. ‘While Cynthia isn’t here you ought to know that I now have serious concerns for her personal safety. She wasn’t seen leaving the Gallery on Tuesday, but one of our agents saw her being tailed from Paddington. Not much to go on, medium height, brown hat and coat, carrying a newspaper. He got on the train with her. Also, there have been reports, from our new secret agent Gladys in the shop, who we must recruit when all this is over,’ he smiled, ‘that there have been more strangers in the village.  I’ve sent a couple of our people to watch. One is a competent artist who can sit with a pad and paints anywhere and will not be noticed, the other is a very good at becoming an old man. Neither would warrant a second look. They both live locally and will be in contact if anything untoward or suspicious happens. Everything now seems to be concentrated on her house. As we have said before, it’s large, isolated and has reasonable communications except in winter of course. But why? We are no nearer knowing what’s behind it. If anyone else has any suggestions, however silly and insignificant they might seem, let me know. Does anyone else have anything to say now?’
‘No? Alright, we have two strands to follow. George, you concentrate on the ladies. I will give you some extra manpower, but can’t let you have our dynamic trio here,’ looking at Jane, Hannah and Alison, ‘because they’re known. I want them to get the information about our potential targets. OK?’ he glanced over them. 
‘We’ll divide them up between us. We may have to come to you George if we come up with any bureaucratic issues. How long have we got?’ she questioned. 
‘It’s Thursday now. The four of us are in the building so we can liaise at any time, so may I suggest George that you and Jim join us on Monday unless you come up with something before then. In the meantime, I’m going to increase the security around Cynthia. I would like to get someone inside the house but can’t as yet find an excuse to do so. If you have any thoughts let me know. Whoever is watching her will be aware of the comings and goings, so we can’t make anything too obvious. Until Monday then. Felicity, can I have the notes by lunchtime please. Thanks’



























