
CHAPTER 37
It was easier than they thought to get the ladies addresses, because they had overlooked the fact that Mary had written to them all with invitations to the party. As it happened, they all lived reasonably close together in three separate villages, and significantly not far from Goring station which in a way made identification of the train lady a little more difficult. All three had access to cars because they had driven to Denleigh and the parties so it could have been any one of them, if at all. That thought still remained an option.
George rang Bill with the addresses. 
‘Sorry Bill, they had been staring me in the face all the time. I’d forgotten about the invitations so got them off Mary this morning. I’ll get people in place today or tomorrow, but it will have to be planned carefully because they all live in small communities. Like Cynthia’s village, any strangers will be spotted easily, especially if they’ve got a Gladys as well.  Need some time on this. Can you send me some help over later so I can brief them at the same time as my team?’
‘Look, on another matter entirely, there is something that is really nagging me about these women and it’s very annoying. It may be important or simply a red herring, but I can’t put my finger on it or get it out of my mind. I have this feeling there is a link between either something someone said or what they had seen. It may go back some way, even to your original meeting with Cynthia. Can you please give it some thought, just for the sake of my sanity?’ he chuckled.

‘Will do. I’ll have a word with Cynthia as well. While you’re there can I run something past you before our meeting on Monday? If we are going to concentrate on these three, let’s not dismiss the husbands outright. We know Davies impersonated Young, and Edwin has told me that Snowden was not as drunk as he seemed at the party, so he is obviously putting on an act for a reason. The enigma is Harrington, he has been in the background and really hasn’t entered the frame, apart from appearing at the Adlon Hotel some years back when we were told he didn’t travel. I am almost convinced they are all involved either wittingly or unwittingly, but we need to create a response and may bring them out of the shadows a little more. I was thinking that if we asked Cynthia to ring Richard at work on the open line, expressing concern that she thought she was being watched, they might react in a way which would at least give us an indication that they are actually involved. What do you reckon?’
‘If she’s willing and it doesn’t compromise her safety, it’s worth a try.’
‘In which case I’ll call her later, and also ask her about your nagging thoughts. I’ve yet to hear from the girls about the Generals, but its early days yet. I’ll see you Monday, unless anything significant happens over the weekend.’
He called Cynthia and explained the plan they had in mind and also asked her to recall anything from her meetings with the group. 
‘Richard will need to be in on this, so his reaction when he gets your call should be one of surprise and disbelief. So far whoever is in control, has assumed that because you have not reacted you have not noticed the tails. If your concerns are picked up by whoever is listening to your phone, the fact that some or all may be withdrawn will show us that they are definitely involved in some way. Of course, the watchers may simply be replaced, but that doesn’t matter. We need to them to show themselves. Are you happy with that? You need to brief Richard first, so no point in making the call today, leave it until early next week. We have a meeting here on Monday, but I don’t think they will react before then even you ring early, so do it on Tuesday and see what happens. I’ll also tell our people who are already there to keep a look out as well. Spotted them yet?’
‘Nobody stands out, and Gladys hasn’t said anything.’
‘That’s how it should be. Give me a call if and when anything happens. Have a good weekend.’

At the Monday meeting Bill outlined the plan to the others. 
‘Cynthia will ring tomorrow and then let me know.’ He looked at George, ‘I also asked her to think back to the Denleigh weekend to see if there was anything of significance she had seen or heard bearing in mind what we now know. Actually, Jane and Hannah could think about it as well. It’s a long time ago now, but there may be something lurking in the backs of minds, mine included.’ 
‘OK, ladies, what have you found?’
‘Nothing at all about Brooke,’ said Hannah, ‘his appointment diaries are kept by his Military assistants and his ADC. He follows a very tight schedule, mostly Army related first thing in the morning and then a series of meetings with the other Chiefs of Staff, which he chairs, and the war cabinet. Often the latter goes on well into the night, depending on the agenda and Churchill’s mood. He then gets driven home to his flat in Whitehall Gardens until he’s picked up in the morning. If he goes to any receptions he is always driven.’
‘What about the others?’
‘There may be some potential here. Ike and Monty, together with Air Marshall Tedder and General Wimberley are due to visit the 51st Highland Division sometime in early February, not sure of the date. However, we do know that Monty and General Crocker are inspecting the same Division and presenting medals on the 13th February, a Sunday, in Aylesbury.’ 
‘I found out something else, which could be important,’ said Alison. ‘Were you aware that for the past few months an American transport detachment have been constructing a series of concrete loading areas on Bucklebury Common. There is now a temporary army camp there, and as it’s a no-go area and you can’t go across the common, it can’t have gone unnoticed. We’ve never travelled further than Cynthia’s house so we wouldn’t have seen it. Do you want me to check it out? Could be only a coincidence that Cynthia lives a few hundred yards away, or it could be of significance. Leave it with me and I’ll try to get some information by this afternoon.’
‘Yes, follow that up. I can’t believe that it could be a target, and it’s apparently not secret, but as you say, might be part of the bigger picture. Let’s have a break and resume in 15 minutes. I just want to check something with these addresses.’
While the others broke out for coffee, Bill went into an adjacent map room and after consulting a chart on the wall pulled one out from a drawer. It was large scale map which covered the mid-Berks region, including the three villages where the ladies lived. He took it back to the meeting room and spread it on the table. Take a look at this.’ He pointed at the three locations. ‘Here we have the Harringtons, indicating Aldworth, the Snowdens at Ashampstead, and the Davies’ here at Yattendon.  All very close to each other and to Cynthia. George, I take your point about the problems observing them, especially the Snowdens, as their house faces the playing fields and is very open. Now, this may sound rather silly but bear with me. Do we have any more artists in our teams?’
There was a look of surprise around the room. 
‘I know, daft question, but think about it. Artists always seem to go unnoticed and not only that, they are often spoken to by complete strangers because they are interested in what they’re painting. We already have the one near Cynthia, who incidentally has not been spotted, even by Gladys, which in a way proves my point, so we could place another on the field opposite the Snowdens, and in the little square here at Yattendon. We’ll have to come up with something else for the Harringtons, because they live outside the village centre.’
‘I suppose that could work,’ George replied, ‘I’ll make some enquiries when I get back.’
‘Right,’ said Bill, ‘I’ll leave that with you. Alison can you follow up on the camp and Hannah, Jane, divide this up as you like, but I want as much information as you can muster on the visits to the 51st Division.  As we still have no idea of time scale, we’ll meet again on Friday. By then there might have been a response to Cynthia’s phone call. Have fun!’
After lunch Alison reported back regarding the army camp on the common. 
‘I can’t find a great deal apart from a few newspaper cuttings. The army were not giving anything away. They described it as a relocation centre. But, as I said earlier, it’s known about locally, in fact the villagers are invited to the camp cinema. I did find out that it’s camouflaged from the air, so must be of some importance.’ She and Bill came to the conclusion, that although it was something to bear in mind, it was not necessarily pivotal to the investigation.’
Later in the day, George rang. ‘Got an artist for you. Came as a complete surprise it’s Bert. By all accounts he is a very competent watercolourist. Never took him for the artistic sort.’
‘I’ve got one as well. Macmillan, one of the guys we sent down to Cynthia.  He’s more of a pencil sketcher. The only thing that concerns me is that he might be recognised, so he will have to disguise himself, but as we said who looks at artists? I’ll get him to come over to you tomorrow morning, so you can brief him with the others. You know the routine. They may need to develop some way of recording comings and goings without being obvious. See you Friday.’








