
CHAPTER 38 
Having discussed it with Richard, Cynthia phoned him late on Tuesday morning when he had got into the office. It was a basic conversation, but her voice was deliberately tense, and his suitably calming.
‘Richard, sorry to disturb you at work, but I think I’m being followed. There seems to be someone watching the house, and when Mary and I went for a walk earlier there was someone behind us.’ 
‘I wouldn’t worry. Probably your imagination. Why would anyone want to watch you, and who would they be? However, saying that, it might be worth just keeping an eye out.’
‘Alright. As you say it may be nothing, but I have a strange sense of being watched. I’ll see you this evening.’
That was all that was needed; however, Cynthia did take the precaution of asking Gladys to let her know if she saw anything suspicious. 

While Cynthia was making the call, George was briefing his team. Bill wasn’t there, but Jane attended in case there were procedural matters that needed clarifying. 
There were eight men and four women in the room as he had decided to get them into teams of four. He felt that the situation demanded more manpower, and some of the personnel were ‘on loan’ from Bill.
He spent time going over the background and the need to observe the three couples and explained the specific roles of Bert and Keith, the one constant in two of the teams.
‘We don’t know how long this will go on for, so we may have to change you all around in a few days, or alternatively, you might have to adopt many disguises,’ he smiled. ‘Basically, we need to know who they meet, do the three see each other and how regularly? We want to determine if there is a pattern and establish whether or not it’s the same people who are involved. This has to be active observation; I don’t want any of you sitting in a car. It’s too obvious and as all the locations are in small villages you, or the vehicle will be seen.  The only static ones among you will be our artists,’ he glanced across the room. Bert, I suggest that you set up on the field almost directly opposite the Snowden’s house, a suitable distance away of course. They live in a row of cottages, so the focus of your painting will be easy to explain should you need to.
Keith, the Davies’ live on a very small square in Yattendon. Apart from the pub, shop and a butcher there is not much more so you will need to be very cautious. However, if you choose your spot carefully, you will be able to see the cottage and the two roads leading out of the village at the far end. I’ll show you on the map later. Aldworth is going to be a little more difficult. The artist scenario could work again, if we decide to move you around, but the village is bit more spread out. At the centre there’s a small square with the pub and shop, but it is very enclosed. I’ll leave it to you to develop your own strategies once you are on site. Divide the time up amongst yourselves, but we need to make sure we cover the evenings as well as the day. Each of the locations has a phone box, so you need only send in a daily report unless something significant happens. I have to say, that this may lead to nothing, but we are working with 5 on this, so it has a high priority. Jane, would you like to add anything?’
‘I don’t have to tell you how to do your job, but it is absolutely vital that you remain as invisible as possible in your roles. None of the villages are on direct transport routes, so each team will have a car, which will change every other day. Make sure it’s parked out of sight.’
‘Are there any questions?’
‘What happens if we are approached,’ asked Bert.
‘Not a problem in your case, or Keith’s, as you can talk about your painting. Feel free to offer to sell it to them,’ she smiled.
‘There are bound to be questions later, so get back to me if you need to. What I would like you to do now is have a look as these maps, so you know the area and then read the descriptions of your targets. Unfortunately, we don’t have any photos, but you’ll soon get to know them.  We’ll have tomorrow to get the logistics in place, but I would like you to sort out your own timings for a start on Thursday. I’ll make sure that cars will be available for you from 06.00.
Incidentally, Keith, Bert, if it rains you can always decamp to the Royal Oak in Yattendon, or the shelter on the field in Ashamsptead. Both have views of the relevant cottages. I’m around the rest of the day if you need me. Jane, I presume you will let Bill know what we’re doing.’
She nodded in agreement. ‘Good luck everybody.’

On Thursday all the observers were in place. Bert, seated on a small folding picnic chair, had erected a small easel on the playing field as Jane suggested. His paints and brushes were lined up on an adjacent table, together with a flask of water and an as yet empty jar. Keith had done the same in Yattendon, choosing a place against the fence by the butchers giving him a view of all the village, from the Blacksmiths on his immediate left, a small lane accessing the square, the shop, pub and the two rows of private houses. Although he usually sketched, he was working in oils to make his role more authentic. All the groups had decided among themselves to work in pairs, and apart from Keith and Bert, move villages every two days, so cutting down the chance of being spotted. For the first day there was little to see, none of the targets left their houses, not even to go to the shop, so their task was easy. Both Keith and Bert enjoyed doing their paintings on the ‘firms’ time. It was on Friday that they had some interest. Mid-morning Marjorie Snowden sauntered nonchalantly across the field towards Bert. She actually walked past him for a few paces before returning, giving the impression that she hadn’t noticed him first time. She peered over Bert’s shoulder.
‘That’s a very good interpretation of our row of cottages. Are you painting them for a purpose, or just for fun?’
Bert dropped into his cover story. ‘The latter really. Since Dunkirk I use art as a form of therapy, so I like to come out into the countryside and paint whatever takes my fancy. Do you mind if I ask an impertinent question?’
‘Depends what it is,’ replied Marjorie with a smile.
‘Do you own that green car in front of your cottage. If so, do you think you could move it a bit further down the road. It doesn’t quite go with the house,’ he smiled.
She looked back at her own home, ‘I see what you mean. It is ours, but I can’t drive so I’ll get my husband to do something when he gets back. How long will it take you to finish it?’
‘Might be a few days as I want to do some other pictures around the green. The church looks good from this angle, and the big house over there with the leaded windows is interesting.’
‘When you’ve finished this one, let me know. I might want to buy it off you.’ 
Bert smiled. ‘Will do.’        
No-one took any notice of Keith in Yattendon.  Nobody had entered or left the house, but he did notice that the shop was very much the centre of the community with a steady stream of patrons. As some came out with no purchases, he assumed that it was also the centre of the local gossip.   
Mike Robbin’s team in Aldworth experienced the same, although Bob had been seen going to The Bell at lunchtime and taking his car out later in the afternoon, but only for about 40 minutes.          
In the meantime, after the phone call, Cynthia had not noticed any of the watchers taking an interest in the house. She made a casual enquiry with Gladys, who commented on the fact that apart from the lady artist who appeared early every morning, and the elderly gentleman who sometimes walked through the village from the church in the afternoon, she had not seen any strangers, adding the rider that of course she could not be certain.
Although she felt a little better about the situation, Cynthia still felt that something would happen soon.



















