
CHAPTER 39 
The case was taken down from the top of the wardrobe and carefully put on the table. It was opened to reveal a German FG42 7.92 selective fire automatic rifle designed specifically for paratroopers. However, when fitted with a ZF4 telescopic sight it made an excellent sniper weapon in the hands of a skilled marksman. It was fitted with a box magazine which could contain 10 or 20 rounds, had all the firepower of a light machine gun and was considered to be one of the most advanced weapons in the war. There was nothing else like it in the world, certainly not in Britain, hence the need to go to such lengths to smuggle one into the country. If the hit was successful, it would have been well worth all the effort. Alongside the gun there were four boxes of ammunition together with a bi pod to provide more stability when used prone, and a folded canvas bag which made it easier to carry. 
It was taken out of its paper wrapping, degreased and cleaned thoroughly, all the components parts reverently laid out on a cloth. Once reassembled and checked, it was now time to practice.
Fortunately, they were not far from an official army range, as this was not something you could fire in the garden or a local field. They would have to choose their time carefully as they needed light and the days were getting shorter. The pair had done their homework and driven onto the Berkshire Downs a few times, to observe through binoculars the movements at the Churn ranges, established as a private facility at the beginning of the century and then commandeered later by the British Army. For an army range the security was unusually lax because no weapons were left on the site, so it consisted of only a chain-link gate fixed by a lock. There was a small building used by the range officer, but other than that it was empty. They had noticed that it was very busy at weekends and for some reason on a Wednesday afternoon, which they later found out was when it was used by Cadets from local public schools. The best times were Tuesdays and Thursdays, not only because there were fewer people, but for some reason the range officer left early. Nobody lived in the vicinity so no-one would question any extra rifle fire as it was a common occurrence. 
There was no real hurry, but it was important that they both got acquainted with the weapon as soon as possible and they were both keen to try it out. 
The following Thursday they drove onto the Downs again, but careful not to leave their car in view they walked the last mile along the Ridgeway, an ancient trackway, over the bridge of the Compton to Didcot railway, then diagonally across the fields to the range. Once there is was very easy to pick the lock and walk in. One of them stayed at the firing point, while the other walked alongside the range to the butts about five hundred yards away, where there were targets already set up. Their job was to indicate the hits, using pointers which were square black painted pieces of metal on the end of a long pole, so that the rifle could be calibrated by the firer. They were both aware that they could not afford to waste too much ammunition, so they took their time. Swapping over after 10 rounds and making an accurate note of their individual settings. Satisfied that they could easily hit a target at that range with pinpoint accuracy, they retrieved the spent cartridges, retraced their steps back to the car, went home and cleaned the rifle. Nobody was any the wiser. 


























