
CHAPTER 40
By the end of the evening, George had received calls from all the teams and had taken notes which had then been passed onto Bill. Apart from Marjorie’s chat with Bert and Harrington’s short car ride there was nothing much to say. Although the latter did create a change of plan in that they realised that their own cars, even out of sight, should be close by so that they could follow if the need arose, which inadvertently provided a rather humorous scenario when all the teams converged in the same area at the same time when the Harringtons and Davies had gone to the Snowdens for Saturday lunch.
When they reported in that evening it was decided to move them around. From Sunday Bert would take his easel to Aldworth, Keith would go to Ashampstead, but in a different location as two people painting the same view might have raised suspicions, and Mike’s team went to Yattendon.
As there was lack of progress, George postponed the Friday meeting until the Wednesday of the following week but arranged to meet with Bill that Saturday evening at the Admiral Duncan, a small pub in Soho. 
‘Nothing has come out of these observations so far. I’ve given it until Wednesday, but unless we get something soon, it would seem to be a waste of manpower which could be focused elsewhere. I’m also concerned that the longer we leave them in place, the more likely our teams will be noticed. Thinking about it, a better option might have been to have tapped their phones, something we could still do I suppose, but I’m not sure if we would get the opportunity. Apart from the lunch today, they’ve not been in physical contact with each other. What’s your view?’
‘I agree entirely. The one bright spot is that Cynthia’s call to Richard has drawn away her watchers, and as far as she can tell, they haven’t been replaced.  By Wednesday’s meeting we will have had almost a week of reports. I would suggest that if there is nothing significant, we withdraw the teams and think of something else. Presumably we still have no leads on the Edwards shooting.’
‘No, we seem to have hit a dead end on both fronts. One thing we did check on was the postal uniform, but none had been reported missing.’
‘We will get the results of Alison’s research on Wednesday, but I think we should concentrate our efforts on the troop inspection in February. As I said before, my gut feeling is that this all centres on Ike and Monty. Think out of the box a minute. Germany is expecting an invasion of Europe at some point, hence all the defensive work that Rommel is doing on the Atlantic wall. They know it’s coming, but they don’t know where or when. The point of this whole scheme has not been to find the answers to either of those questions, otherwise Edwards would have brought in a radio to report back. So, what would be the next best option?’
George pondered over his beer for a moment. 
‘Take out the planners?’
‘Precisely. The operational plans can only have been in the hands of a selected few and even then, on a need to know basis. We’ve listed them before and dismissed some of them as potential targets because many of the senior officers in other services would have strategic, but subsidiary roles. They would be concentrating and planning their individual contributions. However, in my reckoning there are still only four who have an overview of the whole operation; Churchill, Alan Brooke, Monty and Ike. The latter are the ones who are working on the ground, so to speak, so let’s concentrate on them. We know of their official movements over the next few months which means that anyone seeking them out would have access to the same information, so we need to make sure that we are notified immediately if either of them decide to do something on the spur of the moment where they may not have the protection normally given to them. Let’s see what we have on Wednesday, but in the meantime let’s both use our contacts to give us advance notice of any ad hoc visits or meetings.’

On Wednesday, the three team leaders, and the usual members, met in the meeting room down the corridor from George’s office. All sat in a smoke-filled haze with a mug of tea or coffee in front of them.
‘OK, where have we got to?’ enquired George. ‘Alison?’
‘Well, I can confirm that Monty will be at the Aylesbury camp on the 13th February. Despite our concerns for his safety, his staff were not giving much away and weren’t really interested in helping much. I got the impression that they considered they had everything in hand and did not need any external help, even from us. All I have got were the timings. He is due to arrive at 11 for the inspection, medal award ceremony and march past, then he is having lunch in the Officers Mess at 13.00. He will be driven there and back by his usual driver, John Burford, in a closed car. That’s all I know. This is four months away, so everything could change, but I think we should focus our resources on this, at least until we find it’s a non-starter, or something else happens. If the three couples are involved in some way, they are not in a hurry, or so it seems.’
‘Bill and I met on Friday and came to the same conclusion.’ George went on to explain their reasoning, and then turned to the team leaders.
‘Apart from the nightly reports, have you anything to add?’
Keith and Mike shook their heads. 
‘There was one advantage to being there,’ said Bert, ‘I sold the painting.’ He smiled, and seeing the response of the others ‘OK, I’ll buy the drinks next time.’
George looked at them, ‘I suggest that under the circumstances except those watching Cynthia we stand the teams down until such time that we might need them again. Happy with that.’
They all nodded their assent.
‘OK, let’s pool what we’ve got. I know I had the reports but think very carefully. Was there anything else that struck a chord, anything at all?’
‘Well there were a couple of things,’ said Bert. ‘We know from what she admitted that Marjorie Snowden can’t drive. Also, their car is green. Wasn’t it a green car outside Cynthia’s? I can’t be sure it’s the same make and model, but it seems a bit of a coincidence.’
‘Good point, well spotted. And it then follows that we also know that none of the suspects were in the car outside the house. They were two men who Cynthia had never seen before. That means either the Snowdens don’t own the car and it just happened to be parked outside their house, or they loaned it out. We have always said that there must be people on the periphery of this who can be called upon to do the leg work. 
‘I presume we don’t have the colour of any car that may have been involved with Edwards killing. Would be very convenient if that was green as well,’ questioned Bill.
‘No such luck,’ George replied, ‘but we could do with some. It would be very useful if we could see a link between what’s happening now, and the London incident.’
‘Anything else?’
‘It’s a long shot but there is something we could look at,’ said Mike. ‘We reported that Harrington left his house last Thursday. We hadn’t been there long, so didn’t really take much notice. He drove away for about 40 minutes, that’s 20 minutes each way. We know from the others that he didn’t visit the Davies or Snowdens, so, if we say he averaged 25 miles an hour around the lanes he could have gone about 8 or 9 miles away from the house. Of course, that does not allow for any stops he might have made, so would it be worth drawing a circle on a map with Aldworth at the centre and see what’s inside it? May be nothing of interest at all, but as we have little else to go on, it could give us something. Do you want me to give it a try?’
‘Good idea,’ said Bill, ‘I’m the one with all the maps, so come back with me after the meeting and we’ll find a suitable one. Any other comments?’
Keith chipped in, ‘Again it may be nothing but is it significant that apart from Harrington in his car, and Marjorie buying Bert’s painting, we did not see any of the others throughout the week apart from their gathering together for lunch. Which begs the questions were they somewhere else, or had they realised we were there? They couldn’t have gone out without us seeing them. For what’s it’s worth, unfortunately I think some of us were spotted. Mike did say that they saw Harrington going into the pub at lunchtime which could easily have been a way of looking out for any new arrivals like us.  That would then account for them not leaving their houses and risking giving anything away. Although they must have had well-stocked larders as they didn’t even go to the shop. Mike did say that he had not really taken any notice of Harrington driving away. It was late in the afternoon so light was fading, so he may have taken the opportunity to leave and do something quickly before all the watchers were in place and might notice him. Any of them could then have told the others by phone. Also, the fact that they all arrived at the same time for Saturday lunch with the Snowdens could have been another way to see if they were being followed. I suspect it didn’t help when two cars turned up almost simultaneously.’ 
‘OK,’ said Bill, ‘Amazing isn’t it how we can remember things when we have to concentrate. Excellent, that gives us a few things to consider. The map might also help. As far as we know they have not contacted Cynthia yet. I think we should pre-empt that. I am going to ask Cynthia to invite them all for drinks or something and see what happens. She can do it on the pretext of wanting to know when her services might be required. They don’t know about Keith or Mike, so they could go along as well with their wives, as long-lost relatives or such like. I think we need to be proactive. Talking of which, if we have finished here, Mike and I will go and search for a suitable map.’

