
CHAPTER 41. 
Bert drove Mike back to his office and took a one-inch to one-mile map of the area from the chart cabinet. Using Mike’s earlier estimation, they drew an eight-inch circle with Aldworth at the centre with another one at 5 inches to allow for any stoppages he may have made. 
‘So, what do we have?  It looks as though he could have gone to Compton, Hampstead Norreys, Streatley, Bradfield and all the little settlements in between. The other two houses are in the circle, but we already know he didn’t go there, and I can’t imagine him simply driving to visit another small shop so there has to be another reason.  Let’s get a larger scale to see if there is anything else of interest apart from churches and pubs. He extracted a couple of 2.5-inch scale maps which together covered the area of the larger circle. They scanned one each.
After a couple of minutes, Mike, pointing at a specific spot said simply, ‘Now that’s very interesting. Take a look at what I’ve found, Army rifle ranges at Churn.’
Bill came across. ‘He could have easily got there within the time. He only needed to turn left out of the house turn right here,’ indicating a junction with four exits, ‘driven along the road to Compton and up onto the track near the Ridgeway. If that was his destination, he would have needed to have walked the last half-mile or so, but it would have doable in the time. I cannot see anything else of interest on these can you? Well spotted.’ He looked at his watch. ‘It’s too late now because it will be dark by the time you get there, but first thing tomorrow go with Keith and have a look at what’s around. Dress as walkers, otherwise you’ll stick out like a sore thumb. Take some photos if you can, I wouldn’t think its classed as secret, and have a close look at the exit and entry points to see how easy it might be to get in. Perhaps this is the lucky break George wanted. I’ll give him a call. On second thoughts I’ll drive you back and talk to him instead.’

‘Me again George,’ he said as he entered his office. ‘We may have the break we were looking for.’ He then went on to explain the proximity of the range. ‘I hope you don’t mind but I’ve asked Mike and Keith to have look tomorrow. If we are focusing on the possibility of an assassination attempt this could be a likely link, but let’s not be too optimistic until we have explored all the options. In light of this I’m not sure now if we need to arrange the tea party. Let’s leave it and wait for them to contact Cynthia. I’ll call her and bring her up to date.’
‘Fine with me,’ said George. ‘Can you ask her again about any thoughts from her weekend at Denleigh? I know it’s years ago, but there might be something.’
‘Will do. Can you come over to me late tomorrow afternoon? We should have some news by then.’
He returned to his office to ring Cynthia. 
‘If we are correct and this was his destination, then things could either be happening soon, or they are going for February. We still need more evidence that this is their plan. I’m concerned that we don’t have anything concrete as yet. It’s all too circumstantial, we can’t even directly link the intentions of all the people in the train carriage. If we take them at face value as George saw them then, what do an enemy agent, Edwards, a grey-haired lady doing her knitting, unknown, and an academic looking gentleman, who we now know as Young or Davies, have in common apart from similar suitcases. Perhaps it will drop into place soon. I presume Richard has heard nothing about the cheques being used. That would be too much to ask. Any way I’ll stay in touch and keep you up to date.’
‘No, he’s said nothing about the cheques, and he has had junior colleagues looking out for them. I think they’ve been destroyed, but I’ll let you know if one appears anywhere. Bye for now.’
Cynthia, put the receiver down and made her way out into the garden. The temperature was rather fresh, and she wished she had put on an extra jumper. She suddenly stopped in her tracks, returned to the bedroom and rang Bill.’
‘Can you remember how you described the people in the carriage just now?’ 
‘Um, an enemy agent, a man using an assumed name, and a grey-haired lady knitting.’
‘That’s it. That could be the link.’
‘What could?’
‘Bill, think back. Who did we see at Denleigh knitting in the garden? Who did I see at the Adlon with knitting? From my experience, once a knitter always a knitter. Like the postman, who takes any notice of someone sitting in the corner of a train carriage knitting. If my guess is right, our grey-haired lady could be Louise. Also, she doesn’t live far from Goring station.’
‘Wow, well there’s a thought. Thanks for that but keep it to yourself for the time being. I’ll get onto George right now. Keep safe.’
What Cynthia could not have noticed, was that someone with binoculars, was taking great interest in the back of her house from across the fields. 

‘George, we are on a roll. Are you sitting down? Cynthia may have come up with the link that’s been nagging you. Ready for this?’
‘Bill, don’t keep me in suspense, I’m not really in the mood for games.’
‘Alright. Knitting, and nothing to do with the nickname we gave the German ladies.’
‘Knitting? How is that important?’
Bill went on to explain Cynthia’s reasoning.
‘Well I’ll be. That could put a whole new perspective on things. We’ll keep to the original plan of having the meeting tomorrow, but we’ll put this on the agenda as well.’

As Bill put the phone down Hannah came into the office.
‘Have you seen this?’ She placed a copy of the Daily Mail opened at page three on his desk with the headline;
‘Monty to make goodwill visits to Army Bases before Xmas’
Lt. General Bernard Montgomery will be making a series of morale boosting goodwill visits to various army bases across England before Christmas. His itinerary has not been released, but we are reliably informed that it will include those of our allies based in this country…….’
‘Oh no, this has made things much more complicated. I cannot believe that this has gone into the national press, but I suppose we’re fortunate that there’s not too much detail. Could be anytime in the next eight weeks. I’ll put this onto the agenda tomorrow and discuss it then. Might be a long meeting. I’ll get onto the MoD and try to get that itinerary.’
’









