
CHAPTER 42
It took a lot of phone hopping between various offices and some persuasion before Bill managed to get a list of Monty’s visits sent over to him for the following day. Even though he was informed that it was incomplete it did at least give him a time frame. They were all to take place sometime during the weeks of Mon 6th to Fri 17th December but would depend very much on other events. From Bill’s perspective there were two locations which stood out from the rest, the American Military Hospital at Hermitage and the American Transport Division, on Bucklebury Common, both within the circles.
There was plenty to talk about at the meeting and the usual team members were present.
‘Afternoon everybody. We have a few important issues to discuss that have really only come to light over the past couple of days. First, you might have seen the newspaper reports of Monty’s proposed visits to various army bases before Christmas. I managed to get a draft list of possible locations, but it would seem to me that at present, there are only two which could be significant to us, in view of what we now know. 
Things are beginning to work out, but it is mainly still conjecture. Thanks to Cynthia’s memory and George’s persistent internal nagging we are almost certain that the little grey-haired lady on the train was Louise Harrington. The clue for Cynthia, was the knitting. She was seen with it at Denleigh, at the Adlon in Berlin, and of course on the train. That puts her in the frame.
For those of you who were not with us before, from Mike’s reckoning from the time taken, we have calculated that when Bob Harrington left the house, he could have travelled a distance of 8 miles at an average speed of 25 mph. We drew a circle on a map centred on Aldworth and came across an interesting location, the Army ranges at Churn. Mike and Keith have been there this morning, so over to you.’ He nodded across the table. 
Referring to his notes, Mike spoke for the both of them. 
‘To check all possibilities, we started from the centre of the village and followed a route that Bill and I had worked out on the map yesterday. There and back, with time for a recce was about 45 minutes, which was in the time we allowed ourselves. Now the interesting bit. Once we had got to the other side of Compton, we went up Churn Road and then onto a dirt byway. We were able to drive reasonably close because we could follow what is a basically a sheep track to the railway station at Churn Halt which coincidentally reopened in March of this year. It’s on the Didcot to Southampton line but there is nothing much there except a single platform and a wooden shelter and very basic toilets. When the military took over the running of the ranges and had summer camps in the area, this was the only way of getting access to them. We left the car there and walked a couple of hundred yards across the field. The security was almost non-existent, just chain link fencing with a basic lock. Typical range layout, shooting area pointing towards a series of target lines rising on the slight slope to the north. Whoever is looking after the site is not doing a very good job. There were enough spent shells left lying around for some Army range officers I know to go apoplectic, but as it happened this lack of care turned out to be helpful. We collected a few .303 rounds from a typical Lee Enfield rifle, but among them was an odd one, a 7.92mm. which would imply that someone had been there firing non-standard ammunition from a foreign weapon. 7.92 is certainly not a British calibre. The fact that we only found one would suggest that whoever this person was had carefully removed all the spent cartridges, but inadvertently missed it. 
There’s nothing more to add really. We’ve only just got back so haven’t had time to check what the weapon could have been, unless someone here has any ideas.’
‘Thanks Mike.’ Bill scanned the group. ‘Has anyone got any thoughts?’  No? In that case Mike, could you check after the meeting and get back to me as soon as possible? Try Jacobs downstairs in our armoury, he might be able to help. In fact, why don’t you see him now to save time.’
While Mike was out of the room Bill summed up. We now know that Louise Harrington is involved in some way. Bob Harrington could have driven to the range and back, but we have no evidence of that, in fact the shell could have been left by anyone who knew the existence of the ranges, and finally, they have made no contact with Cynthia since the suitcase arrived. Of course, we have assumed that it was Bob Harrington and not Louise driving the car. Mike only mentioned the car, not the driver.
We also know that we now have three possible locations where an assassination attempt could be made, two in a couple of weeks and one in February. Have I missed anything?’
No,’ said George, but I would like to recommend that we concentrate on the December visits, then if nothing happens, we can always fall back to the 13th February. Can I also suggest that as there have been no developments in the Edwards murder, that we leave that to the locals at St Johns and pull our people out to supplement our teams here. Unless we get a specific date, we are going to have to cover Hermitage and Bucklebury over a period of almost two weeks. That will be difficult to manage without extra help especially as we also need to keep watch on Cynthia.’
At that point Mike returned.
‘Jacobs is reasonably certain that this shell comes from a German paratrooper rifle the FG 42. However, according to him, fitted with a good sight and a bipod, it can easily be adapted to become an efficient sniper’s rifle.’
‘Now, that does make it interesting. Almost confirms what we have thought all along, this has all been set up to hide a killing. Jim, can you get hold of Monty’s ADC and inform him of these latest developments. He needs to be aware, and at the same time, ask him to make himself available for our next meeting the day after tomorrow, if he is able to of course.  Let’s break for a cup of tea and a smoke and reconvene in ten minutes.’

While everyone else took the opportunity to stretch their legs, Bill started drawing up a list on the pad in front of him, which he was able to explain when they returned.
‘I’m going to allocate each of you a specific area of responsibility and progress in each will be shared at our meetings. You all realise that there is now a great deal of urgency attached to this, so I am only going to give you 48 hours. All this information needs to be gathered and collated quickly so we can react immediately to whatever might happen. 
Let’s break this down. It is more important now that we keep a close watch on the three couples. He looked across at Bert, Keith and Mike. I am going to withdraw all the present teams and replace you with others who would not yet have been seen. George, on your recommendation, we’ll use some of the London group. Bert, can you oversee that please and make sure all the new teams are briefed and have cars. I won’t change the ones near Cynthia, because they are locals and known as such?’
‘Will do.’
‘Hannah and Jane. I would like you to get everything you can on the American Hospital at Hermitage, security, access points, visiting times and lines of sight. The latter is really important. A visit would be useful if you have the time, because you might find that it would be very difficult to get a clear shot at any target.’
‘Keith and Mike, I would like you to do the same for the Transport base. Same criteria.’
‘Alison, I have realised how we can get someone inside Cynthia’s house. After this meeting I am going to get her to ring you at home on her open line inviting you down to spend a few days before Christmas if you are able to, and of course you are. I presume she has your number, if not let me have it and I’ll pass it on. In case you are seen arriving take on the role of Sarah which I understand Davies or Young knows you as. You’ve already been spotted together in London anyway, so they’re unlikely to think it suspicious.  Your job is to be Cynthia’s and Richard’s minder. I would like you to draw a weapon from Jacobs. Get his advice on what is best. It needs to have stopping power so a small handbag .22 pistol will not be enough. Can you be there tomorrow morning? You might like to take a car as well, rather than use the train and bus again. Bert will organise it when he sorts out the others.
I want everything ready to go by 10.00 tomorrow so I apologise for what could be a late night. As before the observers report back every evening but this time to you Bert as overall team leader. Those doing the paperwork research can bring us all up to date in two days. George, Jim and I will coordinate from here and let you know of any immediate developments that might have a bearing. While you are all doing that, I am going to do some checking into their backgrounds, especially the Harringtons. Any questions?’ he looked around the table, ‘OK., off you go and good luck. Bert, please let me know when all the observers are in place.’















