
CHAPTER 43
The rest of the day was very hectic, but it meant that by mid-morning on the following day all the teams were in place. Bert had briefed all the groups, worked out rotas to maintain complete surveillance, and provided cover stories should they be challenged. With the support of the local services, some would be in overalls working on the telephone cables, some as road workers mending the potholes and others scattered around the villages being ‘normal.’  George had arranged for the local police to carry on with the investigation into Edwards death which freed up members of his team so giving Bert more manpower. George dispatched a courier with all the relevant paperwork over to St Johns where the local Chief Inspector was delighted to take over, especially as he had always felt it should have been his case in the first place. 
Immediately after the meeting Bill had contacted Cynthia on the secure phone, explained the situation, and asked her to phone Alison straightaway on the open line to arrange a visit. So, anyone watching the house would have seen her arrive not long after breakfast in a small cream coloured car, remove a bag from the back seat and knock on the door. As agreed, she was greeted as Sarah with a couple of air-kisses on the cheek. Once inside she became more business-like.
‘Not sure how much Bill has told you, but things could be reaching a conclusion and we want to make sure you’re safe.’ 
Mary joined them carrying a tray of coffee and stayed for the discussion.
‘It’s important that you carry on as normal. Do your usual walks, visits to the shops and other things that you do. Don’t look for anyone trailing you, because we all know that they are there and only reporting back to someone. They’ve made no move to approach you, and anyway we still have people watching them.
They don’t seem to be interested at all in Richard, I presume he is commuting to London every day or is he staying up there?’
‘He comes home each evening at about seven, unless the trains are not running in which case, he stays in a small apartment owned by the bank. 
‘I would really appreciate a quick tour of the whole house so I can get some idea of what’s here. Is that possible?’ Alison enquired.
‘Of course,’ said Mary ‘I’ll show you to your room and then give you the grand tour.’
‘Alison, please treat this as home from home. Mary will show you where everything is, including the tea and coffee so help yourself at any time.’
Having shown Alison to her room Mary suggested that they started upstairs and worked down. 
‘Along this corridor we have four bedrooms. The one at the end is Cynthia’s and Richard’s. It is almost the whole end of the house and the huge window gives them a wonderful view over the fields. This one is mine, and then there is the guest bedroom which you’ve seen, and the final one is now used as a study. The bathroom is tucked into the corner. There are more rooms above us. Would you like to see those?’
‘She please, if it’s not too much trouble.’
They climbed another flight of stairs to the next floor, which was an exact match to the one they had been on; four rooms and another bathroom. 
Mary explained that some of the rooms were extra bedrooms and others used for storage. Halfway along there was another set of stairs.
‘Where do they go?’
‘Onto the roof,’ said Mary, ‘I’ll show you.’ After climbing ten steps they entered a room surrounded by glass. ‘Cynthia’s Mother was a keen painter and used this as a studio, hence all the glass. If you go through that door there,’ she said pointing to one in the corner, ‘you can go outside onto the roof. It’s perfectly safe if you want to see.’
Alison stepped out onto a large white flat area which provided an astonishing panoramic vista. 
‘Wow, this is amazing,’ she said. ‘Let me get my bearings, we are now facing directly south, is that right.’
‘Yes,’ said Mary. ‘If you go in that direction,’ pointing straight ahead, ‘you will eventually get to the coast. Where all those trees are over there to the right is Bucklebury Common and then further on Thatcham and Newbury, and to the left you have Reading. Down there you can see the road from Bradfield through the Avenue. She turned around. ‘And this way you would go north.  Great isn’t it. I’m surprised we don’t use it more, especially the studio, although it does get rather cold in the winter and it’s like a greenhouse in the sun.’
‘Is it always kept unlocked?’ asked Alison.
‘Yes, because the only way up here is through the house, and as there are no children around nobody really bothers about securing it. You’ll notice that we are surrounded by trees which are still short enough to offer a view, but when they get bigger this room and space will be of limited use, unless you really wanted to get away on your own. Tempting as it seems, few of us do. Perhaps I should take up art,’ she chuckled. ‘Shall we go back down now?’
Alison stood for a few moments longer before joining Mary at the steps. The rest of the tour took in all the ground floor, dining room, drawing room, lounge, library, kitchen and various storerooms for food and utensils. ‘There is also a cellar which Richard uses for his wine and where Cynthia overwinters some of her plants. It has a separate entrance from the garden,’ she paused. ‘Is that OK or is there something specific you would like to see again?’
‘No, thanks very much. That gives me a really good idea of what’s here. 
They returned to the lounge and joined Cynthia. 
‘Like it?’ she asked. ‘I inherited this from my parents and it really is too large for the three of us, but it has always been home, so I won’t ever part with it. We tend to live in here and in the kitchen usually unless we have guests.’
‘It’s fabulous. I particularly liked the studio. Shame you don’t get to use it much.’
‘Mary probably explained, its either too draughty in winter or too hot in the summer. But it’s a great view from up there.’ 

Bill had spent the morning gathering information on the three couples while Felicity had been making phone calls to all parts of the country on his behalf. He turned to Jim and George. ‘I cannot understand why I never did this before. The only excuse I can make is I always believed they were interested amateurs being used by a more authoritative figure and so of no particular threat, but that doesn’t seem to be the case does it. I thought that by using Cynthia’s parties and her willingness to join them, we would get to the next level. But we never did, in hindsight it has always remained with them. Even Mosley’s appearance at the last party was a token gesture. That will teach me to make assumptions. My mistake.’
‘I wouldn’t chastise yourself too much,’ said George, ‘from the information we were working with we all thought that Edwards was the main threat and we had things in place to deal with that. However, we still need to remember that they could still be just outspoken members of their class expounding the virtues of right-wing politics.  They’re not the first and they will certainly not be the last. We still don’t have any real concrete evidence. We can’t really make a case on knitting needles and identical suitcases. It’s now a case of doing the background checks and waiting for them, or others, to make a move.  The advantage we have, is that we are one step ahead. Although they may be looking for evidence that we may be watching them, they are unaware that we’ve made some connections. We are doing all we can at present.’
‘I agree,’ said Jim ‘let’s wait and see what the others say at the next meeting.’
‘Incidentally,’ said Bill, ‘I’ve asked Alison to phone us rather than drive back. Now she is in the house and I want her to stay there. Bringing her back here could compromise her cover. Right, let’s see what we can find.’ 

The following evening all except Alison were back in the conference room. 
‘Alison will be ringing in five minutes, so we’ll start then if we may. Once she has reported I’ll go around the table as usual.’
They did not have to wait long, and Alison explained what she had seen to Bill, who then relayed it to the others.
‘I’ve come across something very interesting here. There is a room at the very top of the house, could almost be described as a small observatory, it was used by Cynthia’s mother as an artist’s studio and it has glass on all sides. The significant thing is that because the windows open this in itself provides a 360-degree view across the whole area including Bucklebury Common and the routes onto it and into the village, however,  in addition, there is a door which leads out onto a flat roof, offering the same view. 
I’m now thinking that the Harringtons and the others are actually more interested in the house rather than Cynthia herself. The German couple could easily have come across the tower when they stayed overnight at the party and passed the information on to the others. If we are assuming that we are dealing with an assassin, all he or she would have to do is gain access to the house. I’ve checked and as well as the front and back doors, there are those in the conservatory and one leading from the garden into the cellar. All are locked at night, except the one into the tower room. The roof would make an excellent firing platform as one could lie prone and still see everything.’
‘Excellent Alison, that’s worth noting. Anything else to add?’
‘Only to say that there are three people in the house every night except when Richard can’t get back because of train problems and he stays in town.’
‘Good. I’ll bring you up to date with the rest of the meeting later. Probably tomorrow as we may finish late. Many thanks.’
He replaced the receiver and turned to the others. What do you think?’
George responded first. ‘I will be interested to hear what Keith and Mike say, but unless Hannah and Jane have come up with anything significant, I think the Common could be the target area.’
Jane spoke up. ‘To save time, we both came to conclusion that unless Monty or whoever happened to be conveniently standing in the middle of a playing field, the hospital would be an improbable place to have a pot shot at someone. Security is tight, and unless someone could get into the camp and onto one of the roofs, there did not seem to be any line of sight. There are a lot of trees and all access to the hospital wards is internal. The only exterior entry points are used to take patients into the fresh air which is unlikely in December. So, from what we saw on the ground, and the site plans they let us have access to, the only times Monty would be vulnerable would be getting out of his car at the Officers Mess when he arrived and departed. Although we would not discount it entirely, it’s questionable.’ 
‘Thanks for that, but in order to cover everything, if he were to be standing in the playing field, where could a shot come from?’ 
‘Well, the site backs onto flat open farmland and there is no cover.’
‘That answers that question. Keith, Mike what have you found?’
‘Almost the opposite scenario. Although access is secure at the gate, actually it’s a temporary portable barrier which extends across the road, there is a great deal of coming and going in and out of the site. Also, because all vehicles are checked, we noticed that sometimes there is a backup of traffic on the road going through the Avenue and onto the common. One would hope that Monty’s car would get priority, but there is always the danger of his driver having to stop close to Cynthia’s house.  Although the officer commanding was reluctant to let us into the camp, once we explained our purpose, and showed him our ID he was more than happy to help. He doesn’t know the date yet, but the intention is that Monty will meet the officers and men, have one of his famous ‘gather arounds’ and then go on a walkabout. The camp is camouflaged from the air, but there is freedom of access on the ground. There is one thing he did tell us which could be of some concern. As he is planning to come through the avenue, where some of the men are camped, Monty intends to arrive in an open jeep. Now, we could ask his ADC to advise that he doesn’t, but somehow I don’t think that’s going to work.’
‘I’ll ring him anyway. By the way, he did apologise and said he couldn’t make the meeting but wanted to be kept informed about any developments. So, taking into consideration the reports we have got so far, would you agree that we discount the hospital and concentrate on the Camp and the Inspection on the 13th February.’
There were nods of assent around the table. ‘Bert, what about your teams?’
‘Well, we have established round the clock surveillance, but as yet not seen anything out of the ordinary. Neither the Snowdens or Davies’ have left their houses, and the Harringtons car was followed to a shop in Streatley. It was in the car park for about 10 minutes and returned. Everyone remains in place, but we will be changing roles and personnel over the next few days.’
‘Thanks. Jim and I have been doing some research into all three couples. All except Peter Snowden were public school educated, which may account for his inflated ego, almost an inferiority complex in their company. Let’s concentrate on him first. Father was a successful butcher with a number of outlets. Left school at 13 to work with his father, but then pursued a career in the Army. Promoted in the field from Sergeant to Captain at 1st Ypres for an act of gallantry. Came back home for a few weeks of training and was then reassigned and returned to the front. Finished as a Major, not Colonel, but we already knew that. Surprisingly, after the war he took over his father’s shops and was very successful, selling them on in the late twenties at great profit. He could be described as a self-made man. We could not find out much about his wife. She went to private school from a young age and was destined for a good marriage. We wondered what her parents thought of her marrying into trade. She has few interests and is very much beholden to her husband. She can be a little outspoken and intolerant at times, as we have witnessed. Not sure how she spends her time, because she does not seem to have many interests. Both of them seem to enjoy the country life weekend circuit, and as such are acquainted with many of our literary and cultural greats. It wasn’t just name dropping when we first saw them at Denleigh. The fact that they live in a rather small house, means they are unable to reciprocate, which probably suits them well. 
The Davies’. As one would expect they are both Welsh with land in Pembrokeshire, inherited, along with the title, from his father. He has been involved in running the estates since leaving school.  Megan was the daughter of the local Rector, now deceased. Felicity made a few discreet phone calls and it would seem that both are well respected by their employees and although they sometimes get involved in local activities, it seems to be out of a sense duty rather than enjoyment. They have two boys. One is a schoolteacher and has deferment from callup on health grounds, the older one ran a racing stable on the estate before the war but is now in Italy as a Captain.
Now the Harringtons. Bob was indeed a medic during the war, but not a doctor as he led us to believe. In effect he was a senior nurse, but called an orderly as all male nurses were, until he was seconded for special duties in 1915. As yet, we cannot find out what these duties were. He also finished the war as a Major so what he was doing was obviously thought to be far more influential than being an orderly. After the war he became involved in local politics, first as an interest and then almost full time. He could be described as being very much a Tory’s Tory. He has independent means and has been supported by his mother throughout his life. Louise; again, privately educated and then university trained, she graduated from Girton in Linguistics. As a result, she worked with a company in London for while in overseas marketing and despite what she said, she and Bob have both travelled abroad. Her main interest in both school and University, other than knitting,’ he smiled, ‘was shooting. She was in the 1st VI at her school, President of the Shooting club at Girton and was a member of the Cambridge University gun club. Interesting don’t you think?’
That’s all we could find at present, but Felicity is still following some of this up and we’ll get someone else to keep searching in case there’s more.’
‘Does anyone else have any further comments, or do we sit and wait? If an attempt is going to be made at the camp, then we have little time left.’
‘I have a suggestion,’ said Bert. ‘From what you’ve found out, it would seem that although it was Snowden who told Cynthia to be prepared, the main organisers behind this are the Harringtons. I agree that we should still observe the others, but may I suggest that we concentrate our energies on them. My one concern is that, even with taking all possible precautions, there is a possibility that we will be seen in the village. Now, there happens to be a cottage, not far from their house, which has a To Let sign outside. Would it be possible to rent it and put someone in there to keep watch?  It would have to be someone they’ve never seen or are likely to have seen and it wouldn’t be for too long. Just a thought.’
‘That’s worth considering. Thanks Bert, can you look into it and find out if the place is furnished, because that will make life much easier? We don’t want to make it obvious by using removal vans and the like. We would also need to make any transactions on a personal level so as not to make the estate agents suspicious. What do others think?’
‘A good idea,’ said George, ‘but can you source the funds to do this?’
‘Let’s see how much the rent will be, but I’m sure I can find the money somewhere. We need to think of who to put in there. I could ask Felicity and her husband. They would be unknown, and she has always expressed a wish to be more actively involved rather than be in an office all the time. Leave it with me. 
Shall we meet tomorrow, or leave it for a couple of days?’
‘I think the day after tomorrow will be better,’ said George. ‘We may have more to report by then. Do you want me to contact Monty’s ADC again, to bring him up to speed, and to suggest a closed car rather than a jeep? I’m not sure I would envy him having that conversation with Monty.’
‘Yes please. Bert can chase up the estate agent first thing and we’ll make an executive decision tomorrow. OK. 7 on Thurs then. That will be the 25th so we need some action.’















