
CHAPTER 44
Bert was on the phone to the Estate Agents as soon as their office opened expressing interest in the cottage on behalf of a writer looking for a quiet location. Once he had dealt with the selling pitch, ‘the four roomed cottage is furnished with a wood burning range, has no electricity or gas, no inside facilities, and as such is being let at a bargain price…’ he was eventually told that the rent was £10 per annum and so a short lease would be pro-rata. It was available for immediate access subject to the relevant forms being completed. Bert explained that he would be in their office in Goring by lunchtime and his client would like to take possession as soon as possible. When asked, he could not confirm how long they would require the property, but he may know by the afternoon.
He then rang Bill
‘I have sorted out the cottage. As the rent was cheap, I made an executive decision and have taken it. I’m going down to Goring to sort out the paperwork and we can have it tomorrow. Has Felicity agreed to use it? If so, tell her it seems to be rather basic, so she’ll need some warm clothes and some candles. It’s furnished, but not sure to what standard. By the way, in case anyone asks I told the Agent that she is a writer seeking peace and quiet, so she might like to bear that in mind.’
‘Well done. She’s looking forward to it, but her husband can’t get away from work so she will be on her own, but that shouldn’t be a problem. I’m not sure if she can drive, if not I’ll get one of our pool drivers to take her down. With all this travelling about, it’s a good job we’re not affected by the petrol rationing.  If she drives herself, we’ll provide the fuel. Can you make sure your teams are aware she’ll be there?’
‘Yes, we’ll look out for her. Are you happy for me to sign the documents or do you need to do it?’
‘No, sign them in your name and I’ll get finance to reimburse you. It will be easier that way. Take it on a three months lease then it will be available through to February if we need it. Can you let me know when everything is arranged? In the meantime, I’ll tell Felicity she is now an active member of the team.’
‘Will do.’
As arranged Bert had completed the administration by lunchtime and having driven herself, Felicity, rather than wait until the following day, collected the keys and was in the cottage by late afternoon, complete with extra blankets, food and numerous candles. She spent the couple of hours of daylight left exploring her surroundings and the village. The cottage did not take long as it was so small, and she was quietly amused by the thought of using the tin bath which was presently hanging on the back wall. She lit the wood burner, placed on top a kettle of water, collected from the hand pump in the back garden, and went outside. It was very central with only a small front garden going straight down to the road via a couple of steps. One advantage was the large bow window which afforded her a very good view of all the comings and goings. It would seem that anyone going to the shop, pub or church would have to pass it. Which reminded her that she had to register her ration book with the shopkeeper first thing in the morning. Her cover of being a writer was fortuitous as she could send letters or reports to Bill acting as her publisher without anyone questioning their regularity. She strolled up to the church and back down the lane to the pub. Her cottage was not very far from the Harringtons so she sauntered by resisting the temptation to have a look.
She could not spot any of the watchers, apart from three who were repairing a hole in road. This hole in effect served two purposes, not only did it provide an excuse for them to be on site during the day, but because it was so large, they would have to keep a watchman on duty overnight. Not a very enviable task at this time of year thought Felicity. By the time she returned the kettle was hot, so she made a cup of tea, and rearranged what little furniture there was by placing a table and chair in front of the window where she could observe and write at the same time. To enhance her role, she had brought some non-essential typed up pages with her and scattered them on the table in case someone just happened to visit or peer through the window, but to make things simple she had not brought her heavy typewriter relying instead on pen and paper. She was all set.
She spent a very uncomfortable night not helped by having to wash in very cold water in the morning. She needed to remember to keep the stove alight all the time with a kettle on top. There was plenty of wood in the back yard. Village life was already a bit of a culture shock. Having lit the stove, she walked across the shop with ration book in hand. 
‘Good morning Madam. How may I help you?’
‘As I will be around for a few weeks I would like to register my ration book with you please and get a few things as well.’
‘Certainly. I hear you’ve taken over the Jones place is that right?’ taking the book from her. 
Felicity was tempted to ask how he knew; she had only been there a few hours. ‘Yes, I came down late yesterday afternoon.’
Before she could say anything else, the door opened behind her.
The shopkeeper acknowledged the arrival.  ‘Morning Mrs Harrington I’ll be with you in a minute.’
‘No hurry,’ she said and then turning to Felicity, ‘You must be the lady who’s taken on the Jones place.’
‘How do they know?’ she thought. It’s like living in a goldfish bowl.’
‘Yes, came yesterday.’  She did not really want to extend the conversation but was forced into it.
‘What do you do?’ asked Louise. 
‘I’m a writer. I needed to get some peace and quiet to finish off my book. A friend who had been in the area walking along the Ridgeway, spotted the place when she lunched in the pub and thought it would ideal.’
‘Will you be here long?’
Felicity was getting slightly concerned about the line of questioning. Was Louise aware of her real motive for being there or just being neighbourly? She reassured herself, thinking that she could not possibly know. How could she?
‘Not sure, depends on how much work I can do. I’ve rented the place until the end of February, so I’ll see then. Having said that, I need to make a start and get into a routine. I will most probably see you again.’
She collected her ration book, forgot all about her shopping, which she would sort out later and walked back to the cottage. By now the water in the kettle was hot enough for tea, which she took across to the table and made herself comfortable facing out over the square. 

Bill rang George.
“Felicity is now in place, so we have the Harringtons covered from all angles. I have asked her to send her reports to one of our agents in Rutland who will then contact me. We were in the RAF together so extremely reliable and he does genuinely have a publishing company which helps. I told her to only use the phone if something happens that we need to know about urgently. If she rang us every day, it could get suspicious for anyone watching the phone box. 
I still cannot find anything else about the special duties that Bob was assigned to, which is a bit frustrating, but I’ll keep trying. Anything from your end?’
‘Nothing as yet from the men in the village. Bert will give them another couple of days to finish their tasks and then move others in. We don’t want them recognised. By all accounts they have already been questioned a couple of times by the locals who seem to be an inquisitive lot. I realise we are meeting tomorrow, but as yet there’s little progress. We seem to spend our time waiting. Incidentally, I contacted Monty’s ADC who said that he would only travel in a closed car or jeep if it was raining heavily. He wants to be seen as it is good for morale.’
‘As good a reason as any I suppose,’ said George, ‘but it doesn’t help us. If I hear of anything today I will let you know, otherwise see you at 7 tomorrow. A thought, if Felicity is sending her reports in the post, there will be a delay even if she does send them on a daily basis. Is there any way we could get someone to pick them up and bring them here? A three-hour journey there and back might be worth it, but we don’t want to establish a suspicious routine. I’ll give it some thought. What is she supposedly writing about? Is it fiction or non-fiction? If it was the latter, she might need photos or documents which could be delivered by courier from her publishers. Sorry, just thinking aloud. It’s a bit tenuous. We couldn’t do it every day. I’ll keep thinking, nothing much else to do at present,’ he sniggered. ‘See you tomorrow.’
Bill went out into the corridor and called Jim and Bert. 
‘Job for you, without having to leave your desks. I’ve had a chat with George and he mentioned something we’d not thought off. Felicity is now in an excellent position to observe without being seen, however her reports will be a day late when we get them.  At least Bert can talk to the others in his role as foreman. Can you try and come up with an idea for getting them to us on a daily basis without anyone one suspecting anything. We would need to make sure she knew what was happening, and she would still need to send stuff in the post as well to keep up the pretence. Any ideas would be welcome. George did suggest couriered photos and documents from her publisher so you could start by developing that idea. Let me know if you think it’s feasible.’
‘Right, leave it with us and we’ll think of something.’

After a light lunch, Felicity want back to do the shopping she’d forgotten earlier. As the shopkeeper cancelled the coupons in her ration book, she asked him about the post.
‘I will need to send some of my work to my publisher, may I ask what time the post gets collected?’ 
‘The van comes here at about 10.30 in the morning and sometimes again in the evening if I ring the office to say I have more to collect. If you are sending anything larger than an ordinary size envelope it’s best to leave it with me and I’ll put it into the mail bag.’ He indicated two hessian sacks hanging on nails behind him.
‘Excellent. In that case can I buy six large envelopes if you have them, and some stamps.’
‘I have the envelopes Madam, but it would be best if you bought the stamps when you bring the letters in because the cost will depend on their weight.’
‘Good point. Just the envelopes then please.’ 
He handed them over, together with her shopping and wished her a good day. As she crossed the road, she noticed a green car was now parked outside the Harringtons. At least I’ve got something to report she thought.’
Before settling down again, Felicity prepared a stew which would slowly heat on the wood stove.  She made enough for two days, to save time. The light was now fading making it difficult to see outside, but she was aware of the car going when the dimmed headlights swept across her curtain. She was certain that nothing else was likely to happen so wrote up a short report which she knew could be added to if needs be but would be ready to go in the post tomorrow. She would need to pad out the contents a little to make it seem like a more substantial package. 
The following morning, she was back in the shop-cum-post office buying a stamp and watching her letter being placed in the sack. On her way out she passed Louise, and another lady who she had not seen before. She gave a cursory good morning and ambled across the road.’
Louise turned to the lady standing next to her.
‘That’s the new resident I told you about yesterday. Supposed to be a writer, but I’m not sure she looks the type. I’ll keep an eye on her. Jack,’ she said addressing the shopkeeper, ‘any gossip on our new arrival?’
‘No, she came in yesterday to buy some envelopes and brought in a letter to post just before you came in?’
‘Where’s the letter going to?’
‘I didn’t look.’
‘Well, can you check now? I’m have my suspicions about that woman. Is she really a writer?’ 
‘I’m sorry Louise, I’m not allowed to take the mail from the bag once it’s in there.’
‘Who’s to know? I only need to find out where it’s going.’ She looked at him appealingly. 
He paused then removed the letter from the bag and read the address. 
‘For the attention of Paul Holness, BK Publishing, Harrier Rd. Braunston. Rutland. Looks genuine to me,’ he added.
‘Many thanks Jack. See you later.’ 
‘Oh, Louise, almost forgot this came for you in the post earlier. Not well addressed, I’m surprised it got here.’ He handed over a small box wrapped in brown paper.
‘Probably a birthday present from my nephew,’ she explained. She placed it in her bag.
When they were outside the shop she turned to Marjorie. ‘What do you think about her?’ 
‘Let’s keep an open mind and see if anything develops before taking any action. Peter is coming back for me later, so we could ask him.’







 








