
CHAPTER 45
When Peter arrived to collect Marjorie, and was told about Felicity, he was very non-committal.
‘I think you are seeing a problem that’s not there. How could she know anything about us? Look, to put your mind at rest, I’ll check up on the publishers and see if they’re genuine. You’ve people in the village on your side so there will be little that doesn’t escape their attention. Jack is always on the lookout for unusual activity, so he’ll tell us if he sees anything suspicious going on. Frankly, if it wasn’t a genuine hole, I would be more concerned about the workmen. We’ll give them a couple of more days to finish and then see what happens. Let’s get home.’
First thing the following morning, having got a phone number from the operator, Peter rang the publishers and was satisfied that Felicity was indeed who she said she was. She was contracted to write a book on letter writing and interview techniques for job-seekers to be finished by April 1st. 
As soon as the call was finished Paul Holness contacted Bill. 
‘Morning Bill. Well you’ve certainly rattled a cage. Had a call this morning from someone purporting to be a local journalist enquiring about Felicity, your agent. Did she work for me, what was she writing, how long had I known her? That fictitious biography you gave me certainly paid off.  For what it’s worth, I think you should tread very carefully. Unless Felicity gave them this address, which I doubt, they obviously got it from the letter I received this morning. Which would suggest that perhaps someone in the post-office told them. I’ll send it on by the way. I’ll keep up the pretence if they should contact me again and if there’s anything else you need, just ask. See you.’
‘Thanks Paul, I owe you one.’
There was not a great deal to discuss at the meeting that evening. The groups reported the departure and arrival of the Snowdens, the Davies had still not left home, which was a little odd, and although they expected the redirected letter from Felicity, they doubted that it would say anything more. 
There was one piece of news.
‘The good news is that we heard this morning that Monty will be going to the camp on Tuesday 7th, not sure about the time, but it will be in the morning. Bad news, it has been released to the local press so anyone will now have access to the same information. Doesn’t really help us does it,’ George said, rather wearily, ‘but at least we have two confirmed dates to work with, December 7th and February 13th which at least focuses our minds.’
‘Good, I think Cynthia and Alison need to know, so I’ll phone later. It would seem that Felicity has been noticed. I had a call earlier from the publisher who is acting as our intermediary. Someone contacted him this morning on some pretence asking about her. Paul made an interesting point, that the address could only have come from someone in the post-office, so if he is right, that means there may be others in the village who have the same sympathies as the Harringtons, so we need to be careful. It didn’t take them long to check on her. Which raises an important issue. Bert, how are you going to deal with the teams on the ground? They’ve been in place a couple of days, so we need to think about alternative measures. If the 7th is the day then we have twelve days to cover.’
‘We won’t be able to keep the road crew there for much longer as the repair is almost finished, same with the phone group. As we seem at the moment to be dealing with the arrivals and departures of the Snowdens I think one alternative could be withdrawing them completely and have them situated on cars on the two roads out of the village. One could be in the car-park of the pub at the four-way junction covering all the routes on that side. Much easier to control, and we can change personnel and vehicles on a regular basis. However, that would mean that Felicity’s role becomes more important as she will be the only one on site. What do you think?’
‘That could work, although it means that our contact with her would have to be more regular. At present it’s a daily report a day behind. We have to find some other way.
At least they know she is an author and seemingly of no threat to them.’
Bill began pacing the room; often a sign of him being deep in thought. 
‘We could do this the other way around. If we have cars on the access roads, does she need to remain in the village all the time? She has a car, so we could ask her to use a phone box in another village. The only people who might follow her would be the Harringtons, or perhaps someone working with them, and they would be picked up and followed by Bert’s teams. It doesn’t have to be every day because there may be nothing of significance to report, and anyway, we don’t want to make it predictable.  Now they know what she’s doing we could use the courier idea to get a message to her, especially if he was carrying genuine documents from the publisher. If he went into the post-office and asked where she was staying that would also allay any fears they might have that his arrival might be a clandestine meeting. We all know what gossip is like in a village from our experience with Gladys. Would it work?’
Jim was the first to respond. ‘I can’t think of anything better at the moment. It would still allow us to monitor their movements. If we instigate this once the hole is repaired, it also adds weight to the possibility that the road team were genuine.’
‘Anyone see any flaws?’
‘We would have to make sure the teams and cars were changed regularly. If that can happen then I have no objection,’ George replied.
‘In which case, I will leave that all to you Bert. Take Mike with you and sort out the cars, colour will be the same of course, but models need to be different, and then inform the teams of their new roles when their present work is finished. I’ll arrange to get something sent to Felicity. 
Bill went back to his office and called Paul.
‘Another favour if I may. We need to keep Felicity in the village as the only observer, the others have been there too long, so we need to enhance her cover. If I send a motorcycle courier up to you first thing tomorrow, could you provide him with an envelope addressed to her containing documents of some kind with a covering letter with your logo on. I’ll let you make it up. One other thing. Ask the courier to go into the village post-office and ask directions. We want to make this as natural as we can. Will that be possible? He will also have a letter from me to give to her explaining what’s going on.’ 
‘Of course, but I’ve got a better idea. As it happens, I need to come to London for a meeting in the morning near Covent Garden. I’ll meet your courier outside the Opera House at 9.30 then he can go straight to Felicity. It will save him having to come all the way here first. Don’t worry I will make the material as genuine as possible, just in case.’
‘That would be good, many thanks. Owe you two now!’

The handover at Covent Garden was seamless. Paul went on to his meeting and the courier to Aldworth. As arranged, he went into the post-office to ask where Felicity lived.
‘Morning, I am looking for a Mrs Felicity Green. I’ve been asked by her publisher to deliver some research material, but apart from the village, there is no other address. Any chance you know where I can find her?’
‘Ah, the writer. Came a couple of days ago. She’s renting the Jones’ place just across the square.’ He pointed to the cottage. ‘You must have started out early to get here at this time. Where have you come from?’
The courier did not fall into the obvious trap.
‘Rutland. It’s a long journey, but not too bad at this time of the morning. There’s hardly any traffic about and at least the weather’s good. Thanks for your help.’
He left the shop, walked across to the cottage and knocked on the door.
‘Good morning Mrs Green,’ he said very formally, handing her the package.  ‘This is from your publishers, with accompanying letter,’ he continued quietly, ‘we’re being watched…so please sign this delivery docket and I’ll be on my way.’
‘Won’t you come in for a cup of tea?’
‘No thanks. Tempting as it is, this is meant to look like official business.’ 
He took back the docket, touched his helmet in salute, returned to his bike and rode off.
The letter from Bill was self-explanatory.
While this was taking place, Bill had rung Cynthia and Alison to explain about the possible date. As Cynthia had gone out, he was able to share his concerns with Alison.
‘Make sure you stay safe. You may need to come up with some excuse if people question you being there for so long, but I doubt they are interested in you at all. Something could happen within the next few days, so please stay alert. At least you have the advantage of being in close contact with us. We’ve got another meeting tomorrow, but there will be little to report. As soon as I know anything more, I’ll be in touch. Give my regards to Cynthia.’













