
CHAPTER 46

The meeting the following day was short, as were the next few. There was little to report about any movement, the hole in the road had been repaired and the teams deployed to cars, and Felicity continued to observe from her window and stroll to the shop to post her papers to Paul. She had seen both the Harringtons but only around the village and as far as she was aware, they had not used their car. 
The one thing that slightly concerned Bill was that nobody had seen the Davies’ for some time. They had not been seen leaving their house and nobody had visited them. He consulted with George.
‘What do you think the Davies’ are doing? They’ve not come out of their house for the past ten days, not even to go to the shop opposite, and come to think of it, neither have the Snowdens since Felicity saw Marjorie in Aldworth last week.’
‘Could they have gone to their Welsh estate?’
‘Possibly, but how did they go without being seen. Do we know where they park their car?’
‘There’s no garage attached to the house, but there are some outbuildings around the back. Do you want me to have them checked?’
‘Yes, but as always tell them not to make a big thing of it in case the Davies’ are watching.’
‘I’ll tell them when they next phone me, in about an hour, and get back to you.’
Bill could not work out what part the Davies’ were playing. He thought it through; they were at Denleigh, they were then seen again at the Adlon in Berlin, he was the one on the train and, as Young, took the case to the house and for some reason did not recognise Cynthia. Although, it could have been the other way around, he may have thought she would not recognise him as Davies because they had not seen each other for such a long time. But either way it didn’t make sense.
George rang back later in the afternoon.
‘Their garage is empty. It seems there was a back entrance which is not easily visible so they could have gone out that way. The exit to the road is not on the square, so it’s possible they drove out without any lights, so as not to be seen. I’ll make some enquiries then I’ll take Jim first thing tomorrow and gain access from the rear to check. If we are confronted, I’ll flash my ID, that usually works. Are you busy or do you want to come?’
‘I need something to relieve the boredom. I’m fed up with the waiting and the inaction, so I’ll see you there at 10. In the meantime, I’ll contact the Pembrokeshire police and ask them to check the estate. See you tomorrow.’
When they met the following morning, Bill was able to tell George that the Davies’ were not at their Welsh home and he had asked the police to make a few more enquiries and widen the search.
It was very easy for Jim to pick the lock and they entered the building unchallenged. It was well furnished and apart from a few days dust, it was very neat and tidy. Seemingly, it had not been a hasty departure. They searched room by room and found nothing of interest except for the wardrobes where there were lots of empty hangers, and the bare drawers in the dressing table and chest.
‘Either gone away for good, or for an extended time. Do they own, or rent this place?’
Jim flicked through his notes. ‘Long term lease, coincidentally arranged by the same agents that own Felicity’s.’
‘OK, can’t do anymore here. Bit of a wasted journey, but at least it explains why they’ve not been seen. One thing we can do is check the registration of the car. Could you get onto that Jim and then let Inspector Williams know in Pembroke, he’s dealing with it at that end? Now, do we leave the observers here in case they return, or use them elsewhere?’
‘The latter,’ replied George, ‘from what we’ve seen I doubt if they intend coming back.’

After their return to London it did not take long for Jim to find the car number, YPK 485, which he forwarded to Pembroke. Now all they could do was wait, again. It was now Thursday. Surely something must happen soon thought Bill. The closer it got to the 7th, without any progress, the more likely it will be on the 13th February. 
As it turned out, he didn’t have to wait long. That lunchtime he had a call from a phone box.
‘Artist speaking. Thought you should know that something is going on here. I’ve spotted more people wandering around the area, and one or two have made a point of going into Cynthia’s drive. I think you should warn her. There’s still a lot of military activity on the Common and along the Avenue, but nothing unusual in that respect. All the interest seems to be centred on the house.’
‘Thanks, very much. By the way, I’m sorry you have been there for a long time, but it was necessary. Payment will be made in the usual way.’
‘Not a problem. Rather enjoyed it.  Not painted ‘en plein air’ for a long time and got quite a few reasonable paintings out of it. I’ll stay around until I’m no longer needed.’ 
Bill immediately rang Cynthia.
‘Morning, I have received a message to say that there seems to be a lot of unusual interest in your house. The Artist has spotted a number of faces she’s not seen before. Please take extra care. Can I suggest that Alison moves her car out of sight? These new people may not be aware that she’s there, which might be useful. I’ll get back to you once I have any more information.’
‘Will do. We’ll carry on as normal. Do you want me to ask Gladys about visitors in the shop or leave it? She may have other details.’
‘No, I would leave if for now. Descriptions at this stage won’t make much difference. We know they’re there so that’s all we need. Be careful.’
As soon as he replaced the receiver the phone rang again. It was Jim.
‘It would seem that a car with that registration number took the ferry from Fishguard to Rosslare last Monday. According to the booking form there were two passengers, but not under the name of Davies, they couldn’t decipher the signature.  So, unless someone else was driving, we can assume that the Davies’ are now in Ireland under false names. They’ve had a four-day start, so could be anywhere, especially if they’ve done the obvious thing and changed cars. What do we do now?’
‘A number of the aristocracy have historical links with Ireland. Get someone to check if they’ve any land over there. Other than that, there is little we can do at present. At least we know that they are out of the picture for now so let’s concentrate on what’s going on here. A thought, can you get back to Williams and ask if he can get descriptions of the occupants? A long shot after such a time, but just to make sure. Also, having been caught out in Yattendon, can you get one of the teams to check that there are no back entrances or garages in Ashampstead, we know there aren’t any in Aldworth. Time is running out, so we have to act quickly. Action at last. Jim, is George there, if so, can I speak to him?’
‘Yes, he’s here.’
‘Hi Bill, what can I do for you?’
‘George, I’ve had a hunch. I realise this is very short notice, but with your Branch hat on, can you do some serious digging for me. Some of what I am going to ask may require a court order, but we need to have this information by Monday at the latest. Can you find out from the Davies’ bank and their solicitors, if there has been any unusual activity in their accounts or in any legal matters. You’ve only got this afternoon and tomorrow to deal with the banks, so can you start with them first and get Jim to contact their solicitors. They will probably be in Pembroke.
If you get any problems, quote matters of national security or the Emergency Powers Act 
and I will have one of our legal experts on standby in case we need some backing. I would like to do the same for the others, but not sure we’ll have the time, but you could ask Mike to check on the Snowdens.’
‘OK, we’ll get onto it now.’
Later that evening, Bill was informed that there was a back entrance to the Snowdens’ house, but there was a car in the garage and there were signs that the house was occupied so they were evidently laying low.  As yet, there was nothing from Wales or from George. It was all very frustrating as nothing could be done until all the pieces fell into place.  As it now seemed that the 7th was the likely day for anything untoward to happen, Bill contacted Monty’s ADC and made a suggestion about the former’s safety which he might be amenable to.
He could do no more at present, so went outside and took a walk along the Thames embankment. It was dark and the river looked very grey under the moonlight.  There were few people about, and the city was eerily silent. The only noise came from the wash of the river against the wall, and the occasional sound of a ship’s hooter from downstream.
He sat on a bench under the leafless plane trees and focused on what needed to be done before Tuesday. He was certain he had not missed anything, but it all depended on the group’s next move. Without their instigation, there was nothing that they could be charged with. Unless the could be positively linked to the murder of Edwards, they had committed no offence and all the evidence that Bill and George had was circumstantial. He realised that he was getting chilly in the night air, so turned and walked back to his office. ‘Let’s see what tomorrow brings,’ he thought.




