
CHAPTER 47
George rang first thing Saturday morning.
‘I’ve had a call from Inspector Williams in my response to getting descriptions of the people in the car. He had no luck, but the man in the office did tell him that there were three people in the car not two, and there’s more. Would you like to guess how the fare was paid?’
‘No idea,’ replied Bill.
‘By cheque, signed by T.G.Edwards.’
‘What? Those cheques have not been used since Penzance,’ he thought for a minute. ‘Whoever is using that cheque book must have got it from Edwards either after he boarded the train or in London from the flat. There was no communication between those on the train, so, if it was the latter it could only have been the person who killed him. Presumably they realised that the cheques would give them away. But it doesn’t explain why it’s being used now. Why not simply destroy it.  Give me a moment, I need to check on something and I’ll get back to you within thirty minutes.’
He disconnected the call, and immediately made another one to Martins Bank.’
‘May I speak to Richard Childreth please?’
‘Certainly sir. You’re lucky he’s in the office this morning; the Directors were meeting through the night, you’ve just caught him before he goes home.’ replied the receptionist, ‘I’ll put you through.’
‘Richard Childreth here. The bank is actually closed on Saturday but how can I help you?’
‘Richard, it’s Bill.  Sorry to delay your journey home, your receptionist told me you were just leaving, but I need a favour. We’ve just been informed that someone has used an Edwards cheque to pay for a boat crossing to Eire. We only know because we had asked the police in Pembrokeshire to make enquiries about the Davies’ down there. Can you find out if that account still has funds in it, and if it has been used elsewhere over the past few weeks?’
‘Certainly, I’ll ring you back.’
‘No, if it’s alright with you, I’ll hang on. We are tight for time.’
‘OK, ten minutes.’
Richard was back in five. ‘That account is still current and has quite a substantial sum of money in it. The Reichsbank have not been topping it up since the war started of course, but they had done so on a regular basis since 1933 when we set up the account at their request.  According to the records, this is the first time it’s been drawn on since Edwards’ payment at the Long Boat Inn, Penzance. Why is it being used now? I suppose whoever it was does not want to withdraw money from their own account and so risked using this one.’
‘Actually, there may be no risk, because the person who did use it, is now in Ireland. Look if it doesn’t compromise your position can you let me know if someone accesses it again as we would have no other source of information.’
‘Don’t worry about that I’ll let you know if anything crops up.  I will be home later, but I’ll make sure that anyone on duty here informs me immediately. Bye for now.’
Bill got onto George.
‘Richard has confirmed that there is a lot of money in the Edwards account, and this is the only time it’s been used since Penzance. He is going to let me know if it is accessed again. Any news from Davies’ bank and solicitors. Thought we might have heard something yesterday.’
‘Not as yet. Will you be in your office all day?’
‘Yes, together with Hannah and Jane so you should get one of us.’
‘Be in touch,’ said George and rang off.
Bill was out of the office when George rang back so he spoke to Hannah instead.
‘Could you let Bill know that we have heard from the Davies solicitors about the estate. They say that Davies instructed them to transfer all rights to his estate equally between his two sons with effect from midnight yesterday. However, there was no mention of money. The estate manager will take charge until such time that either son can take over. According to them, the documentation is watertight. That’s all we’ve got but it does suggest that the Davies are not intending to return. Also, tell him the banks are being a bit more awkward and now it’s Saturday they are being even more obstructive. However, I’ll keep trying.  Should he want to get back to me I am going to be in the office for another hour, then I’m going home for a short break and then back this evening. Bye Hannah.’
Hannah explained everything to Bill on his return. He decided not to disturb George and allow him a well-deserved break, he only wished he could do the same himself. 
Mid- afternoon Mike rang.
‘Hi Bill, some news. After a lot of hassle, we managed to gain access to the Snowden’s bank accounts but there is nothing in them. All the money in their joint current account and their individual savings accounts were cleared and transferred to the Bank of Ireland in Dublin a week ago. They also had share certificates in a safety deposit box and according to the Clerk they’ve gone as well. I had to apply a bit of pressure, so there might be some diplomatic fall out as a result of this, so expect complaints on your desk on Monday, but at least we’ve achieved what we set out to do so that’s something. Incidentally, I promised the Clerk I would not mention his name because he is bound to get into bother over this, but he said he has not had so much excitement in the forty years that he’s been working there, so someone was happy. Is there anything else you want me to do?’
‘No, that’s a great help Mike. I hope that the Davies bank will be as cooperative or will also have an elderly clerk seeking excitement. Get off home now and I’ll contact you if you’re needed.’
‘Thanks, see you Monday.’
It wasn’t until late in the evening that George rang. ‘After lots of threats and a suggestion of contravention of the Emergency Powers Act, I’ve eventually got a response from Davies’ bank. All their accounts have been cleared and funds were transferred to the Bank of Ireland in Dublin last week. Nothing was transferred to their sons.’
‘Exactly the same as the Snowdens. They have obviously planned an escape route of some kind and apart from the estates, they are taking their monetary assets with them. Not sure we can do much about that for the moment, so let’s concentrate on Tuesday. Thanks for that George. If anything happens tomorrow I’ll contact you at home immediately, otherwise try to relax for a few hours.’ 









