
CHAPTER 48 
There were no further communications that evening from George, Felicity or any of the teams, but Bill decided to stay overnight in the office rather than travel home to think things over.  
Now having the reports from the banks and solicitors it was clear to him that the group had been planning this for a long time. Getting away to Eire, was something he had not considered, but a couple of questions remained, would they remain there or travel on and who was the third person in the car? He could not even be sure that it was the Davies’. The only piece of tangible evidence was the cheque, but he still didn’t know who had passed it and if the officials at Fishguard couldn’t remember then there was no way of finding out. 

Strangely Sunday morning was quiet. There were only two days to a potential incident yet neither the Snowdens nor the Harringtons had moved. The cars were still in place, but they had seen nothing. It was getting to the point where self-doubt was beginning to set in, and both Bill and George were questioning whether or not they had made the right choice in going for the Monty visit on Tuesday rather than concentrating on the 13th February. However, all was to change by late afternoon. 
First there were two calls from phone boxes, one was from Felicity informing Bill that she had seen the Harringtons packing cases into their car and driving off, and the other was from one of the teams on the road reporting that they had seen the Harringtons drive past them rather fast.
Then there was a call from outside Cynthia’s house.
‘Bill, the Artist here.  Something is happening. Two cars have just appeared and are parked in the pub car park. One person has gone to sit in the back seat of the other car. There seems to be a meeting going on and from the little body language I can see, it looks rather intense. I would suggest that you let Cynthia know that she may have visitors soon. If anything else happens, l will ring back.’
Bill immediately rang Cynthia.
‘Just had a report that two cars have turned up at the pub opposite you. You may be getting some unwanted guests. They will only expect to see you, Richard and Mary and may be unaware that Alison is there, so can you ask her to make herself scarce and get out of the way unless they specifically ask for her. If they do know she’s there and ask where she is, make something up. When the road teams get back to me, which should be soon, I’ll get them over to you. If the occupants of the car do come to the house, then basically ad lib and go along with what they want. You have the private line so use it if you can. One of us will be here all the time. I need to go because I have to ring George and bring him up to date. Don’t forget to tell Alison about the…’ The line went dead and he stared at it, pressing the button on phone to try to re-connect, but with no success.
While Bill contacted George, Alison left the room and sat near the top of the stairs out of sight, but where she herself could see the front door and listen to any conversations below.
Ten minutes later Bill received another message.
‘Artist here again, both cars have now gone up Cynthia’s drive. Incidentally, before they arrived, I saw a man on a bike with ladders strapped on and a bucket on the handlebars posing as a window cleaner. He went around the side of the house so I couldn’t see what he was doing.  He could actually be cleaning the windows I suppose, but I don’t think so. What would you like me to do now?’
‘There is something. Do you have your car with you?’
‘No, but it will only take me five minutes to get it from home.’
‘Good, can you go to the four points junction at Aldworth and inform the men sitting in the car in the pub car park to follow you back to Cynthia’s?  I don’t think we should wait until they contact me. If they can pick up the other team on the way, that would be good, but when they get to the house tell them to stay out of sight. Is that OK? Can you call me again when you get back? You may be our only line of communication for a while.
‘Consider it done,’ and she rang off.

Two cars appeared on the front drive and very soon there was a loud knock. Mary went to answer it and as soon as she opened the door three people walked in without invitation.
‘Where’s Lady Cynthia?’
‘She’s in the lounge with her husband. Hey, how dare you march into this house without a by your leave. Very ill mannered.’
They ignored her and walked down the corridor to the lounge. 
Cynthia turned as they entered…Bob and Louise Harrington and Sir John Davies. 
‘Good evening Cynthia,’ said Sir John, brusquely, ‘forgive the intrusion and the short notice but we are calling in our favour,’ he said while removing his gloves. ‘We need to take over your house for a couple of days, but there will be no inconvenience to you. We just need to have use of it.’ He looked around inquiringly. ‘Is there anyone else here apart from yourselves? We will check, so if there is it’s best you tell us now.’ 
‘No, just us. Why do you need it? I thought we had been asked to host an agent not give over our house. And incidentally, why did you ignore me when you dropped of that suitcase?’
‘Ah, that agent didn’t appear, so you won’t have to put yourself out. With regards the recognition, I was surprised to see you here, so by playing the innocent I had hoped to put you off. We had not seen each other for years, and I didn’t want to bring any attention on myself. Obviously, it didn’t work because you identified me, I should have adopted a better disguise, but fortunately it has had no bearing on our plans. Young as a character has disappeared as well. I presume you still have the case and resisted the temptation to open it.’ 
‘Yes, it’s in my study.’
‘Please fetch it for me, will you?’ he said in a manner of someone used to giving orders.
‘May I point out that this is my house, and I am not one of your servants. Tell Bob to get it, it’s at the side of my desk.’
Davies smiled at her then nodded to Bob indicating the direction of the study. When he returned Davies took some time inspecting it, especially the locks. ‘Good doesn’t seem to have been tampered with. Bob, before you sit down, could you make sure that Jack has finished his little job outside and Louise, can you search the house, and make sure there really is nobody else here. Start in the cellars and work up. That’s usually the first place anyone would hide.’
He sat down on the winged chair near the fire. ‘You, Mary isn’t it? Perhaps you would be kind enough to get us some tea.’
Mary was about to object until she noticed a slight shake of the head from Cynthia. ‘I’ll bring it through.’
Bob came back into the room. ‘All done,’ he said, ‘Jack’s gone back to the shop. He offered to come over tomorrow morning in case we need anything, but I told him that wouldn’t be necessary. I do feel slightly guilty that we‘ve rather used him in all of this. But I suppose he has not really done anything serious apart from cutting the phone wire.’

Alison was now in a vulnerable position, she needed to remain hidden but realised that anyone going into the guest room would know it was being used, so while Louise searched the ground floor and the basement, Alison crept along the top corridor to her bedroom, gathered up her belongings into a bag and waited with the door slightly ajar. Once she heard Louise entering Cynthia and Richard’s room at the far end, she chose her time and quickly went downstairs into the kitchen, then to the cellar and left the house via the small door to the garden. She ran across the lawn to the summer house under the cover of darkness.
Louise eventually returned to the lounge.
‘Nobody about. Only two rooms being used, although there was some dry soap on the sink in the guest room, but it could have been there for some time. While at the top I did go up to the tower studio. We can have a better look in daylight, but it would seem to be an ideal spot.’
‘May I ask what this is all about,’ demanded Richard. 
‘No,’ said Bob curtly. ‘You only need to accommodate us for tonight and tomorrow and by Tuesday lunchtime we will have disappeared. Never to enter your lives again.’ He accompanied this with a theatrical flourish. ‘Presumably we can use your spare rooms?’
‘You can. But as we were not expecting guests, we will be short of food so l’ll go across to the shop in the morning,’ said Cynthia.
‘I don’t think that would be wise,’ warned Louise. ‘We’re happy with short rations so you’ve no need to worry.’
Bob and John had remained seated drinking their tea. 
‘Where are the others?’ asked Cynthia.
‘Safe,’ said John. ‘We have had the feeling for some time that we were being watched, so we decided to play with the watchers. Without them realising it we swapped cars and houses. I have been living at the Snowdens for the past few days and they have long gone, along with Megan. Incidentally, the two agents posing as artists were very good, as artists I mean, not observers. We picked them out very early on. We also know Cynthia, that you have been playing a double game. We have had you in our sights for some time now, and some of the individuals you’ve met, at the Ritz for instance, we recognised, even though disguised. You have made the mistake of treating us as amateurs while instead we have been very professional and used our own teams of like-minded people to keep an eye on you. A dangerous game, if I may say so. I’m still not certain about the writer who conveniently arrived in Aldworth, but she doesn’t matter now, and anyway Jack can keep an eye on her.  We made sure we weren’t followed, so nobody knows we are here, so relax. Incidentally, don’t think about using the phone. We’ve cut you off, literally.’
Cynthia didn’t say anything but gave a worried glance towards Richard. 
‘Right, we will sort out our rooms, one at a time so as not to leave you alone, and then we can settle down for the evening. Perhaps you could show us where to go.’
‘Mary will take you to the rooms on the top floor. Am I allowed to go into the garden, I could do with some air?’
‘By all means. As you say this is your house,’ he said mockingly. ‘We’ll get our bags from the car.’
Cynthia was concerned about where Alison could be. The only place she could have hidden, unless she had shuttled around between the rooms indoors, was somewhere in the garden.  She rejected the potting shed and the greenhouse and strolled across to the summerhouse. She didn’t go in, but instead sat on the oak bench outside. She couldn’t be seen from the house, but if Alison was there, she did not want to give her away. She tapped the window lightly. It opened onto the first catch.
Facing the lawn, Cynthia whispered over her shoulder. ‘Are you OK in there?’
‘Yes, found the loungers and a couple of blankets and I have access to the water tap so should be alright, but may have to wee in the flowerbeds though,’ she giggled. ‘What’s going on inside?’
Cynthia explained, adding that the phone lines had been cut. 
‘We are now out of contact. On the other hand, you have access to the next village through the gate at the very bottom of the garden, but they may be watching it. If you can get away unseen turn left at the gate and walk along the track for about a mile. There’s a phone box there.’
‘I’ll hang around here for a while and only use that if necessary. I’m interested in what their intentions are, but I think we have a fair idea. Bill may have got a message to the others so for all we know they are at this very moment ready to storm the battlements, but I doubt that will happen because we are playing a waiting game. You had better go back before they become suspicious. Incidentally, don’t worry about food, I have survived without before. Better to go hungry rather than them knowing I am still around.’
Cynthia sauntered on a little further, before returning to the house carrying a few logs for the fire in her arms. Something to explain the walk she thought.
When she got back, Davies was issuing orders.
‘We don’t want any unwelcome guests tonight, so Bob will you drive one of the cars to the lane behind the house. Just go out of here turn right, then right and right again and you will see a layby. Park the car facing the way you arrived. There is a footpath back across the field. Louise, can you take the other one and park it across the drive and block the gate. Get it as tight as you can. We’re not going to use it again, so a few bumps won’t matter.’

Bill had been in contact with George. 
‘The balloon’s gone up. Had reports from the Artist that there are two cars on Cynthia’s drive, and she has three guests. The worrying thing is that they seem to have cut the phone lines. However, we have Alison inside, as long as she remains undetected, and I’ve got a message to the car teams to gather in the village and to stay out of sight. I don’t think anything is going to happen this evening, but you and I need to get down there early tomorrow, can you make it for nine? I’ll meet you outside the Queen’s Head on the main road in the previous village and we can make our plans there. We need to get to the others if we can. Would it be possible to drop Jim off somewhere along the avenue in some sort of disguise to find the others and get them to the meeting? Tell him to leave one team in situ with Mike, but make sure Bert can be with us. The other car can bring them back. I’ll see you tomorrow unless anything happens this evening. I will contact Monty’s ADC first thing.’










