
CHAPTER 49
Jim left his flat in London very early the following morning dressed in his now redundant RAF uniform. ‘If I have to turn up in a disguise it might as well be one that I’m comfortable with,’ he thought. ‘Nobody will notice a uniform walking around, even if it is the wrong colour.’ 
So, it was Squadron Leader Jim Redgrave DFC., who parked his car at the end of the avenue and marched, in the manner of an officer on duty, through the parallel lines of the Elizabethan oak trees planted on either side of the track. Walking past the varied military paraphernalia nobody gave him a second look and those who did, offered a perfunctory salute which he returned. The car teams had done a good job in staying out of sight and it took a while to find them. Still in role, and slapping his stick into his gloved hand, he approached both independently and told them where to meet the others. While at the far end of the avenue he could not resist the temptation of peering into the grounds of Cynthia’s house. However, his route was blocked by a large car which had been parked across the entrance, blocking the gate. He looked around it, but not wishing to draw attention to himself by pausing too long, he retraced his steps back through the trees, stopping occasionally to take an interest in what some of the men were doing, as an officer would, got into his car and drove off to join Bill and George. 

Producing his ID card, Bill had managed earlier to persuade the landlord to allow them to sit inside. Not only was this better than being in the garden in the freezing cold, he also provided them with three jugs of coffee. ‘Can’t give you tea,’ he explained, ‘that’s rationed, so only for my regulars when they ask for one.’ He walked back behind the bar, leaving them to their discussions.
There were ten of them round the table as Bill had brought Hannah and Jane with him, Bert had arrived, George and Jim and the four from the cars including Mike and Keith. 
‘I like the uniform Jim. You look very dapper,’ said Jane eyeing him up. 
‘Thanks. There are times when I miss it all, until the burns remind me how lucky I was. No going back. Before I get maudlin, shall we get on?’

As usual Bill took the Chair. 
‘Now as we are all here except Alison, and before we get into the details, I need to tell you that things are not as bad as they might seem. I have a couple of aces up my sleeve, one of which has been there for a long time. Unfortunately, I cannot reveal them until tomorrow, for reasons you will realise then.’
‘Let’s take stock. We now know where everyone is. The Snowdens and one of the others are in Ireland, so we can forget about them for now, the others are now in the house and unlikely to move. We no longer need the cars to remain on watch, but I want one of you to be parked in the back lane behind the house from first thing Tuesday. I am certain that they will use that as an escape route.’
‘They may already have their own car there already,’ explained Jim. ‘When I passed earlier, one car was obstructing the front drive, and although I only had a cursory glance, I couldn’t see the other one on the drive, so they may have moved it. In that case, if it is there you might like to block it in.’ He said with a smile.
‘What they may not realise, unless Gerda and Lena passed the information on after their guided tour at one of the parties, is that we can gain access to the house via the garden door. We would have to be very careful, because they may be looking out for any signs of activity. However, for reasons that will become apparent, I don’t want to use it until almost the very last minute. The ADC has told me that Monty intends to get to the site by noon. He has been in touch with the security people on the base, and they are aware that something may happen, and they have been asked to give his Jeep priority which one would expect anyway. He will not be told until tomorrow morning when he will again be given the option of a closed car, which he is unlikely to agree to, even in winter. He does like to be seen. Before I go on, does anyone have any questions, suggestions, comments? Pass me the coffee would you Bert.’
He replenished his cup and continued. ‘Please interrupt if you think I’ve missed something. Everything is going to happen tomorrow and everyone in the know, apart from Monty, has been informed. Our timings have to be on the mark. I am assuming that they will attempt to take a shot from the tower studio, that gives them a complete arc of fire and all the windows can be opened. Personally, I think they will be out on the roof. They will not risk a noisy shot, so although it may detract slightly from the accuracy, I think the weapon will be fitted with a silencer. We know from the shell that Keith and Mike found at Churn, that they have a powerful weapon capable of doing a lot of damage over a long distance, so think what it could do over three hundred yards. Our aim, if you excuse the pun, will be to stop the assassin making the shot, although in order to charge them with anything we need to catch them in the act of attempting to carry it out. Does that make sense? Whatever happens they will try to make an escape, probably over the back fields which we will have covered. If possible, I would like to apprehend them in the house, and this will be George’s task because he has the power of arrest. This is my suggestion; stop me if you want to. I want to go through this now, because we will need to remain silent tomorrow and rely on hand signals. At 0900 hours I want the car to be parked in the back lane. 
At the same time, I want all of us in staggered groups of three to come across the back fields and into the summerhouse, regroup and then across to the garden door into the cellar. Now, the problem is that there is no cover, so as we have all done some military training and it is not very far, we will leopard crawl so we can keep low. Personally, I think they will be more intent on other things, but I don’t want to take the chance. All OK with that?’
‘What about my new trousers?’ asked Hannah with a wide grin.
‘Tough,’ retorted Bill, again with a smile. ‘We have no idea where anyone will be, so once we have got into the cellar we will need to be very quiet and attempt to make a reconnaissance of the house.  As we know they will be in the top tower, I want Keith and Mike to stay on the ground floor to thwart any escape, while George and I attempt to get as close to the studio and roof as we can.  Alison will also be inside, but she is better served protecting Cynthia and the others. Are we all happy with that?’ 
‘Let’s just hope it doesn’t rain so we don’t get wet across the field. Never did like getting muddy,’ said Bert. It was always best to have some levity at times like this they thought.

Neither Cynthia or Richard had slept well, so were revitalised by the coffee and toast that Mary had provided in the kitchen. In the house Davies was still assuming command. 
‘We need to get on and plan what we are going to do tomorrow. We know that Monty will be driving past at around noon, so we need to be in place by at least 11.30 in case he’s early. Bob, I want you and Louise to do a dry run. Set up the rifle, calibrate the sights and find your best firing position. Have you decided yet who is taking the shot?’
‘I am,’ said Bob, ‘after all, this is what I was trained for during the last show. Not sure how they found out about my shooting skills, but whoever it was certainly did me a favour and got me out of nursing. I can set it up myself so no need for anyone else to come, in case we might be seen. However, a couple of cushions might help, and I need to make sure that the bipod doesn’t slip, although I may find it is easier to handle without.’
From the look on her face it was obvious that Louise was disappointed not to have control of the weapon, despite her having a near perfect grouping, when they put it through its paces at Churn. 
Davies looked at the others. ‘You three,’ turning to Cynthia, Richard and Mary, ‘Stay around here. No wandering except in the garden where we can still see you. If anyone goes into another room, Louise will go with you. I’ll go to the tower and help Bob sort himself out.’
Cynthia’s thoughts went to Alison in the summerhouse. While Louise stayed with Richard and Mary, Cynthia ambled across the grass and went through the previous routine, tapping on the window and awaiting a reply.
She continued to face the lawn but leant back on the bench. ‘How’s it going?’
‘Not bad, a bit stiff. Despite their name the loungers were very uncomfortable, so I slept on the floor.’
‘We are being watched. Louise is playing minder and the other two are in the tower. If we get a chance we will try and get some food out to you.’
‘Not a problem. I have the water, although the facilities leave something to be desired. I sat on a spiky plant earlier before anyone was up, and its itching like mad now. Hey ho. Later, I may try to get back into the cellar, so I am at least closer at hand.’
‘That’s not a bad idea. None of them have been down there, apart from Louise on her search. You should be alright and there are some cupboards to hide in should you need them. In all seriousness, what does it matter if they find you? They know we cannot contact anyone; you would be just someone else to babysit. I may see you later. If you’re coming, I’ll try to leave some food in there. Bye.’
She returned to the house, rubbing the chill out of her hands. 
The rest of the day was very boring. Cynthia and Richard amused themselves reading and doing crosswords, and surprisingly Louise took out her knitting. Mary was quite happy making endless coffee and managed to gather enough food for lunch and dinner. Cynthia remembered to leave some in the cellar on the pretext of getting some coal. Davies spent time going over some documents and Bob had the rifle on his lap cleaning and caressing it. He had always been obsessed with making any rifle or pistol spotlessly clean so there could never be the possibility of any of the mechanism going wrong. Once satisfied, he dismantled it and put it back in its sleeve, before he set about polishing the sight. There really was nothing else to do until the morning. After dinner and a nightcap, they all drifted upstairs to bed, at almost the same time that Alison was making her entrance into the cellar. She ate the food left for her and waited awhile until all was silent and then very quietly opened the door into the kitchen and through to the main house. The embers in the lounge fireplace were still glowing so she sat for a short time getting warm before returning to her hiding place. There was nothing she could do here for the present though tomorrow could be an exciting day.























