CHAPTER 50
Tuesday morning was a typical winter’s frosty morning with ice crystals on the grass and a clear blue sky, which meant that there was no way Monty would arrive at the camp in a closed car. 
Bill and the team had stayed overnight in Newbury so they were able to be in place early. As arranged, at 0900 one of the cars drove around to the back lane taking some of them as passengers, while the other members walked the same route that Bob had driven on Sunday evening. His car was still there tucked into the hedge. As the team gathered, they made sure that they kept out of sight of the tower studio which could be clearly seen just a few hundred yards ahead of them. 
‘OK, before we go, I got hold of Monty’s ADC yesterday and he is now fully up to date with what we’re doing. I had a thought last night, we need to have someone with the car just in case, so Ken you stay here. I don’t envisage anyone getting this far but just in case you can block the road. We can’t do it now because we would deny access to the houses down the lane, but Ken, no heroics.’
He nodded.
Remember the drill we went through last night. Across this field, under the wire fence into the garden, its only single strand so easy to crawl under, then onto the summerhouse. We’ll RV there first. We won’t need to crawl the last bit to the house, just use the natural cover in the garden. When the first group gets to the cellar door make sure you keep it open. From this point on there will be no verbal communications, hand signals only. We’ll go in single file, so we will only make one trail. Everyone happy?’
‘Yes,’ said George,’ but it’s been a long time since I crawled across a field. I hope they haven’t had cows in there recently, that really would mess up your trousers Hannah.’ He glanced across at her and received a sardonic smile. It was always good to relieve the tension with a bit of banter.
‘Ready to go?’ 
There were nods of agreement around the group. 
‘Hannah, Jane and Jim, you go first. Then Keith, Mike and Bert, then George, and Pete and I’ll bring up the rear. We’ll leave a five-minute gap between each group. 
By the way, Mike, where did you leave the other car?’
‘It’s at the side of the shop, easily accessible should we need it later.’
‘Good. If everything goes to plan, we will only need it to get home tonight,’ he smiled.
He tapped Hannah on her shoulder. ‘Off you go.’
Within twenty minutes they had arrived at the summer house all wet and grassed stained from crawling through the frost. For one moment, Bill became very concerned that the trail they left across the field could be seen, but the temperature was rising and the only one line could easily have been left by a deer or something.  
They sat on the floor for a few minutes to gather themselves and in some cases get their breath back.  Bill tapped Hannah again, and she led her group out and using the flower beds as cover made her way to the garden door. She just hoped that when opened it wouldn’t squeak. Within minutes they were all inside where they were surprised to find Alison. 

So much was happening in the house that nobody would have seen their arrival. Mary and Cynthia had rustled up a breakfast and Richard made the coffee. He needed something to do. He should have been in the office by now, so was aggrieved that his routine had been disturbed.  Davies was wandering around trying to look busy, and Louise and Bob were in the studio sitting against the wall below the windows.
‘I’m not sure we should be doing this Bob. Why don’t we cut our losses and leave now?  We could easily drive off and join the others in Ireland and nobody would know.’
‘Don’t get cold feet now. We have been planning this for ages. This has been our task ever since we had the code word from Haw Haw. We’re in too deep now to simply give up. What would the others think?’
‘Fine. I’m not really bothered what the others think, I only wanted to express my opinion and give us a way out. Are you ever going to stop cleaning that rifle?’ 
Bob laid it down and went outside to arrange the cushions while Louise went to the kitchen to get a coffee.
Davies came in and looked at her. ‘Do we need to get our bags into the car, or shall we leave them here and travel light? I don’t really fancy traipsing across the field with suitcases. I know Bob won’t like it, but we will leave the rifle here as well. It will be an incumbrance and we’re unlikely to need it again. What do you think?’
‘Once Bob has changed, we can leave the cases and travel as we are. She looked at her watch. It’s eleven so we need to get organised.’ She called upstairs to Bob while Davies went to the guest room to get his things.
Cynthia and Mary had remained in the lounge letting everything happen around them. They felt totally out of place and to some extent were afraid of what might happen to them after the attempt, especially as Davies seemed to be aware of her dual role. She couldn’t sit still any longer so went into the garden just to get out. It was all getting a little claustrophobic and she needed some air. She checked to see if Alison was in the summerhouse by going in on the pretext of getting a couple of hand tools. With those in hand she then went into the cellar and found the team. Bill immediately put his fingers to his lips. Cynthia gave them all the thumbs up sign and indicated to her watch. She mouthed 11.30 and pointed her finger upwards. Bill nodded. 
Cynthia left the cellar and went over to the flower beds to avoid suspicion. Richard came out to join her. 
‘How much longer do we have to be held captive here? Bill seems to have forgotten about us. We could literally be in the firing line.’
‘No need to worry,’ she answered, ‘all in hand.’ She glanced towards the garden door. 

Indoors the tension was rising. At 11.20 Bob came downstairs dressed in the clothes that had been left in the suitcase. The idea had always been to be disguised as a woman, at least to begin with, in order to throw off any pursuers who were looking for two men and a lady. He left his auburn wig on the hall table to be picked up later. At 11.30 all three moved up into the tower. 
Bill looked at his watch, then opened the doors to the kitchen and the garden. Alison beckoned to Cynthia and Richard to come back in, while the others left the cellar and took up their prearranged positions. Mike and Keith remained at the bottom of the stairs. Hannah, Jane and Bert went onto the second floor and George, Jim and Bill went to the stairs leading to the studio. Timing was now really important.

Davies and Bob were out on the roof while Louise remained by the studio door. The rifle was set up and Bob lay prone behind it. He kept wiping his hands on his skirt and looking at his watch. After a while they could hear cheering coming from down the road. Monty was coming. Davies squatted down. Bob placed his finger on the trigger. The noise got closer and a jeep came in sight.
‘Oh my god, there are three of them all with two cap badges.’ cried Bob. ‘Three Montys in three jeeps and they’re all facing the other way, so which one do I target?’ he shouted.
‘None of them,’ said the voice behind him. ‘Put the gun down Bob and step away.’
He turned to see Louise standing against the door frame holding a pistol in both hands in a range position. 
‘One more time Bob. Move away or I’ll shoot.’
‘What the hell are you doing?’ screamed Davies. ‘We’ve only seconds left. Give me the gun.’
With her eyes remaining on Bob she replied calmly, ‘No, and stay where you are.’
At that moment Bob picked up the rifle again and was shot through the hand. 
‘Next time it will be more serious,’ she said. ‘For the last time step away.’
Davies attempted to rush her but was wounded in the arm, not by Louise, but by Bill who was now standing next to her at the door. He looked at her and whispered, ‘Well done.’
Bob, realising that the cavalcade had driven past rose to his knees and looked at Louise.
‘Why? We have been planning this for ages. Why? Why?’ he was almost in tears.
‘One day I may tell you, but for now, let’s just say that it was all getting out of hand and has been for a long time.’ 
Davies stood holding his arm staring at her, absolutely dumbfounded. 

She gave her gun to Bill, turned and went downstairs to the lounge where she sat in the armchair and put her head in her hands. It had been a momentous decision but one she did not regret, although she did shed a few tears. Cynthia, Richard and Mary just looked at her astonished. They were unaware of what had happened on the roof.
Bill and the others came downstairs with Bob and Davies in front of them. 
‘Mike, can you bring the other car over from the shop and Keith, can you go across the field and tell Ken he can stand down, then come back with him?
‘George, these are all yours,’ he said pointing at Bob and Davies. The former was holding his hand, now wrapped in a scarf to staunch the blood and Davies had his arm tucked inside his jacket. A large dark stain was spreading over the front. Bob looked a rather forlorn and ridiculous figure dressed in his lady’s clothes, but Davies was more arrogant and self-assured.
‘This won’t stop us you know. We might have failed this time but there will be others.’
‘Oh! do shut up,’ said Cynthia, finally losing her patience. ‘You have been a spent force ever since Mosley was interned and lost his interest in politics and the balance of the war tipped in our favour.’
‘But we could have changed everything. An army without a commander would be useless. We would have delayed any potential invasion.’ His voice was getting louder and louder
‘If you really believe that then you are totally misguided and foolish.  One man does not make an army. There would always be others to take his place,’ replied Bill.
Bob looked across at Louise. ‘I still cannot understand why you did this. John’s been in the background, but you’ve always been our leader on the ground, despite what Snowden thought. Why the change of heart?’
‘Not now Bob, it will all come out in the wash. I am really sorry you did not take my offer earlier this morning. We could have got away, but you were too intent on following the party line, what party there is left. You left me with no alternative.’ She turned away. 
Mike came in. ‘Both cars are here George. Shall I load them up?’
‘Yes, but first can you find a medic from the camp to sort these two out for the trip back. I don’t want blood all over my car. You and Ken deal with that while I stay here with Bill to wind things up. I’ll catch up with you later.’
Ken and Mike took one each and led them to the car outside the front gate. They were joined by Bert and Keith.
George looked at Bill. ‘What do we do about her?’ he asked indicating Louise. 
‘Nothing,’ said Bill. She was one of the aces up my sleeve…remember?’ 
All the remaining team remained silent.  He looked at Louise. ‘Do you want to explain or shall I?’
‘It will be better coming from you.’
‘Perhaps you would all like to take a seat,’ he paused. 
‘Louise has been working with me for a long time. I’m sorry I had to keep it from you, but I could not risk compromising her position and indeed her safety. You may remember that we had a short conversation at Cynthia’s second party. Louise explained that she had had enough and didn’t like the way things were going. Initially, she was all for the change in the political scene, but once it became violent and the speeches and rhetoric became more extreme, she wanted out. How am I doing?’ he looked at Louise. ‘Do you want to take over?’
She nodded.
‘I couldn’t stand it anymore. What started off as a bit of a game was now becoming very serious, especially as the Davies got in with the German crowd. They both idolised Hitler, even before they met him in Berlin. Megan in particular. On the surface she may seem mousey and under John’s thumb, but she was more fanatical than the rest of us. She was the one who shot Edwards. She had realised, even before he arrived in London, that he could be the weak link, so she planned it meticulously. She also took the cheque book. I found myself in a difficult position. I could not leave, because my life may also have been in danger because I knew too much, so I took the next option and offered my services to Bill as an insider. I went along with everything they wanted to do, and I maintained the role of leader. I knew I would be doing it alone because I could have no contact with either Bill or the rest of you. So, it was me on that train and it was me who brought the gun back to our house and it was me who tested it on the ranges at Churn. I am a very good shot myself, having been in the team at Girton, and I was hoping they would allow me to use the rifle so at the last minute I could refuse. But for some reason John insisted Bob should do it. So, I was my own backup.  Bill must have realised I was vulnerable and sent me a gun via the post-office in the village. It was an innocent looking package and even Marjorie who was with me at the time, didn’t question it. Incidentally, most of the observers watching the house and Cynthia were recruited from remains of the BUF members.’ She looked at Cynthia. ‘ Be assured that I would have broken ranks and told you if you had ever been in any danger.’ 
She looked at Bill. ‘John was right when he said we picked up your observers very easily. They weren’t very proficient.’
‘But that was the point,’ explained Bill, ‘by concentrating on the artists he didn’t see the others. Nor did he spot the elderly lady at her easel who is still across the road  as we speak and has been feeding us information throughout, or the old man walking around the village laying flowers on the grave or visiting the church. Both work for us and are a lot younger than they seem. Our one unexpected bonus was Gladys.’
He scanned the room. One last thing. I did say I had two aces. The other was of course the ‘three Montys’. I had arranged with the ADC to provide two other people dressed in Monty’s usual jacket with mock-up berets, in similar jeeps. We couldn’t stop Monty coming in an open car, but we could provide some confusion. Incidentally, Monty was told this morning, and was suitably non-plussed. Took it all in his stride.
I think that’s all for now. We need to have a debrief at some point, but we can leave the technicalities to George and his team.’ He turned to Cynthia, Richard and Mary.
‘I have to say that you have all been brilliant throughout this. It could not have been easy maintaining a role you were all unhappy with, allowing your house to be used as a venue by us to weed people out and as an assassination point. We may not call upon you again, but I hope we may keep in touch just in case,’ he said with a smile.
‘Right, let’s gather everything together and get back to London and leave these people to get their lives back.’ He looked at Louise. ‘What would you like to do, come with us or go back to the cottage?  Your car is still here, and Jack would have been picked up by now. It’s entirely up to you. We all need to meet up again soon to sort things out, but for the moment you’re not required.’
‘If you don’t mind, I’ll go back to the village. I will feel safe there.’
