





STITCHED UP

MARTIN PARSONS


Dedicated to 

Oliver Dennis



the last of my grandchildren to have a book dedicated to them.












PREFACE
The TypeVIIC U-boat slid quietly on the surface into the deep sound.  Submersion at this point was not necessary as there were no lights from the shore and the cursory minefield was easily negotiable. The fact that there was little in the way of coastal fortifications made this the ideal place for a landing.  The problems could come afterwards, but that was not the Commander’s problem. As soon as he had deposited his cargo his job was done, and he could return to his base at St Nazaire on the west coast of France. 

Five of the crew gathered at the rear of the vessel. They lowered a small black inflatable into the sea and attached it securely to the side.  As one of the men stepped into it, the mysterious passenger who they had brought from France carefully walked along the gratings carrying two suitcases. He climbed down into the boat and sat opposite the sailor.  At a silent command the rope was released, and the dinghy was rowed towards the beach, now less than a hundred yards away.
Throughout the war, St Mary’s in the Isles of Scilly lying 28 miles south-west of Land’s End was literally the Achilles heel of the UK shore defences.  
At the beginning there was little in the way of modern protection. There was an insignificant naval presence comprising a couple of destroyers, a small army garrison, and a few flying boats. It wasn’t until 1941 that the garrison doubled in size and six Hurricanes were based there. Now, in the summer of 1943, little had changed.  
The one weakness was that although surrounded by some minefields and shore defences, the community still maintained its daily shipping links with the mainland via the Scillonian steamship. Anyone travelling to Penzance required no documentation other than their identity card and a ticket bought from the company office in Hugh Town, thus enabling any agent to get into the UK…providing of course that they could get to the islands in the first place.

The stranger, Helmut Schnitter, originally from Hamburg, climbed out of the boat, gave a cursory wave to the oarsman, walked across the shingle, clambered over the stone abutments and settled down in the lee of the wall to wait for morning. There was little chance that he would be discovered as this was not a well- trodden path, certainly not so early in the morning. 

After a fitful attempt at sleep, he rose and made his way along the footpath, past the Georgian façade of the Duchy of Cornwall office and the Tudor designed Star-Castle and proceeded down the steep descent into Hugh Town.  All he needed to do now was act like a man with business on the island, buy his ticket and catch the 16.30 boat to Penzance.

However, unbeknown to Schnitter his arrival was not unexpected.  Three months previously, in March, MI5 had received a coded message from a source deep in the Abwehr that German Intelligence was in the process of gathering information about a possible Allied attack on Europe.  Agents were being trained to enter the UK and simply observe and report back any unusual activity which could be attributed to invasion preparations. 





















CHAPTER 1
WILTSHIRE  
May 1932
Lady Cynthia Childreth drew up in front of the imposing Georgian country house in her dark green 1931 Alvis 12/50 tourer one of her few indulgences as its 1500cc engine made it quite an exceptional sports car. She was met by the butler who opened her car door and a uniformed footman who, without asking, removed her cases from the boot. 
‘Good morning, Madam,’ said the butler in a rather clipped voice. ‘Welcome to Denleigh Manor.  I will escort you to her Ladyship who is in the Drawing Room with some of the other guests.  She is of course expecting you. May I ask if you are accompanied by a maid so I can make arrangements for her in the servant’s hall?’
Cynthia considered this a rather wasted question, as she had obviously got out of her car alone, but nonetheless she replied politely. ‘No. only me, although my husband will be joining us later.’ 
‘Very good Madam. I will assign one of our girls to assist you.’
As her car was driven off to be parked somewhere less obtrusive, Cynthia followed the butler into the house and into the Drawing Room where she was announced.
‘Lady Cynthia Childreth, your Ladyship,’ He then turned and left.
The Ladyship in question was Lady Amelia Wyndholme an elegant brown-haired woman of 31 who had been at school with Cynthia some years before. She was married to Horace who was ‘something’ in the Foreign Office. Like Cynthia, her title was her own and not one acquired by marriage. 
Planting air kisses on both her cheeks she greeted her friend.
 ‘Cynthia darling, how are you?’
‘Fine thanks, Amy, and you?’
‘As well as can be expected dear. Coffee?’
Before Cynthia could reply a young girl dressed in a black knee-length dress with a white collar and white apron approached carrying a silver tray.
‘Thankyou. I’ll take it black with no sugar.’ 
Let me introduce you to the others and offering her arm Amy led her to a group by the fireplace, now devoid of heat, because of the season, but neatly stacked with logs, giving the impression that it could be lit immediately if the need arose.
‘Ladies and Gentlemen, may I present Lady Cynthia Childreth, an old friend from school-days. Perhaps you could introduce yourselves while I see cook about lunch,’
This was part of the proceedings that Cynthia hated.  If truth be told she loathed these ritual weekend visits to other people’s houses, when many hosts used the opportunity to simply show off their wealth and privilege. She had only agreed to come because Amy was very insistent that she joined the party and she would not take ‘no’ for an answer. At least she had not had to travel very far from her own expansive house and gardens in Bucklebury, as Berkshire and Wiltshire are adjacent counties and it was less than an hour’s drive along the A4 and a few B roads.

A man of obvious military background came across and shook her hand vigorously. 
‘How do you do? I am Colonel Peter Snowden, and this is my wife Marjorie’ indicating a rather rotund lady standing next to him, and sweeping his arm in an arc he said, ‘Allow me to present the others.’
He indicated to each in turn.
‘Bob and Louise Harrington, Miss Maclean, her companion Miss Gilchrist, and Mr Newton. It seems that the other guests, Sir John and Lady Davies had a prior engagement they couldn’t get out of.’
They all acknowledged her with one simultaneous ‘Good morning.’
Cynthia managed to cope with the small talk by making the right noises and nodding her head at appropriate moments…all the while looking for an escape route that wasn’t immediately apparent. She realised that this could be the precursor of what the weekend had in store. They were all of a type, very ‘country’ in tweeds and sensible shoes, with the exception of Miss Gilchrist who was dressed in black jacket and widely flared trousers, had very short hair and rather surprisingly sported a monocle in her right eye.  Totally different in style from everyone else. 

The butler returned to the room and announced that a ‘cold collation’ was available in the dining room. Dutifully, they all filed along the corridor to be confronted by a large spread of cold meats and pies, fish, salad, cheeses and bread laid out on an adjacent sideboard, enough to feed a small army thought Cynthia. The drinks and glasses were available on a side table which was an exact miniature version of the large one in the centre of the room. 
At least for this stage of the proceedings they would all be seated at the table, rather than have to balance a plate of food in one hand and a drink in the other while making polite conversation. It was a long oval one of some vintage with ball and claw feet and such a highly polished walnut top that you could see your face in it. The burgundy cushioned seats on the chairs complemented the wood. 
Cynthia sat next to Marjorie, who was more intent on eating than making polite conversation, and directly opposite Miss Gilchrist. 
‘Are you local?’ Cynthia asked her.
‘No, Jane and I live in London. Jane is in Amy’s circle but I’m just a hanger on. You?’
‘Amy and I were at school together but I’m not in her ‘circle’ as you put it. She just invited me to spend the weekend with her.’ 
The Harringtons sat at the far end of the table seemingly in deep conversation with Colonel Snowden. Mr Newton remained on his own and did not utter a word throughout the meal. 
After coffee had been served and cleared away, the maid offered to show Cynthia to her room. They ascended the double width staircase to the first floor and entered a large, rather ornate bedroom. All her clothes had been unpacked and had been placed in the paper lined drawers or hung in the wardrobes. 
‘The bathroom and lavatory are along the landing Madam, but you will notice that you have your own washbasin behind the screen.’ She pointed to a red and green lacquered canopy in the corner of the room. ‘If you need anything else, please let me know.’
‘Thank you, I will.’
Cynthia inspected the room. As well as the wardrobe there was large double bed, two chairs and two dressers all in oak, giving the room a dark, rather austere feel. The window overlooked a courtyard at the back of the house where she could see her car parked in front of a brick building which looked like it had at one time been a group of stables, and beyond that was parkland. 
She sat on the bed contemplating what she could do before Richard arrived and noticed an envelope addressed to her on the bedside cabinet. She retrieved the note from inside.
‘Cynthia
Please excuse this rather cloak and dagger way of communicating with you, but I could not do it openly for reasons you may work out at dinner. My invitation to you to spend the weekend here, was not entirely altruistic. I was instructed to do so. Over the next couple of days, you will be approached by one of the guests, even I’m not sure which one, who apparently wants to talk to you on some matter of importance. 
Amy’

How very strange thought Cynthia? Why would anyone want to contact her here rather than at home and who would it be? More to the point was what the matter of importance.
Although considered by some as being a little unconventional, as far as Cynthia was concerned, she was very ordinary. She had travelled extensively around Europe often driving herself, spoke French and German fluently, and her political leanings could be described as middle of the road. Despite her upbringing and wealth, she hated the trappings of class and the keeping up of appearances that went with it.  In consequence she had mostly shunned the social events associated with her privileged background and instead, out of choice, had pursued a rather more concealed lifestyle which she described as being ‘in the shadows.’  Cynthia could not be described as an archetypal aristocrat or ‘lady.’ Her teachers would certainly attest to the latter she thought. 

She had married well, a financier who had worked his way to the top of the company by hard graft and determination. To outsiders their marriage looked stable and firm, but it was really just one of convenience and both parties had had their dalliances. 

With nothing else to do Cynthia took a book from her shoulder bag, the recently published ‘Have his Carcase’ by Dorothy Sayers, she often fancied herself as a female Lord Peter Wimsey, went downstairs and made her way to the garden.  

The Harringtons had changed and were now playing tennis, Mr Newton, the Colonel and Miss Maclean were making good use of the croquet mallets and Marjorie Snowden was taking a nap in the chair. There was no sign of Miss Gilchrist.

She settled down to read, but the next thing she knew she was feeling a gentle tap on her shoulder. 
‘Darling. Wake up you’re snoring.’
Cynthia came too with a start. 
‘Richard. When did you arrive?’
‘About an hour ago. You were fast asleep, and I didn’t want to wake you. It was only when you started to snore loudly that I decided to disturb you as you would have considered it unladylike.’ 
He raised a cup in mock salute.  ‘Would you like a cup of tea? I’ll have one brought out.’ Before she could answer Richard rose and went back inside the house returning with the maid carrying a tray containing all the accoutrements for making tea…including a plate of shortbread biscuits. 
‘Your tea Madam. Shall I pour?’
‘No, that will be quite alright. I’m sorry I never caught you name earlier.’
‘Sheila, Madam’
‘And the butler?’
‘Patrick, Madam’
‘Are there more staff, or do you both do everything?’
‘Oh no, madam. There’s the housekeeper, Mrs Ball, and Miss Nicholson the cook, they both live in, and we have a cleaner who comes in from the village every morning, and of course there is the outdoor staff. We have a couple of gardeners and Gary the apprentice.’
‘They obviously work very hard to keep on top of things; the gardens are in good order.’
‘Thankyou Madam, they will be pleased to hear your appreciation. Will there be anything else Madam? Sir?’
‘No thank you Sheila, that will be all for now. Oh, hang on, what time is dinner?’
‘Drinks will be served in the Library from 7.15 and dinner will be at eight, madam.  Would you like me to draw either of you a bath?’
‘No, that’s fine we will look after ourselves. Does her ladyship usually insist on formal dress for dinner?’
‘No, madam.’
‘Thankyou. Never sure what to wear on these occasions.’
Sheila nodded and went back inside. 
Cynthia realised she and Richard were now the only ones in the garden and time was getting on. 
‘Richard, we need to get ready. Would you like to use the bathroom first, or shall I, that’s of course if the others are not already in there.’
‘That’s fine. I will just wash and shave, so you go ahead.’
They finished their tea, deposited the tray on one of the tables on the terrace and went up to their room. 
Cynthia collected her wash bag from her case, took a towel from the cupboard and made her way to the bathroom. Getting no response to her polite knock on the door she entered and took in the amazing sight of a deep freestanding bath complete with highly polished golden taps with an independent shower head resting in a cradle over the top. She was going to enjoy this.
























CHAPTER 2
Drinks and canapes were already being served by the time Cynthia and Richard arrived at the library. 
‘You probably all saw him this afternoon, but may I formally introduce my husband Richard,’ Cynthia said to the group.
He acknowledged the murmurings of welcome and then took a large glass of gin and tonic being offered by Patrick. Cynthia did likewise. The small talk took the same line as lunchtime, although now most of it was directed to her husband, which made Cynthia a little less fraught. She still could not decide on who her mysterious contact might be and why the communication from Amy had to be secret. She had shown the note to Richard who was as equally intrigued by the whole situation but didn’t comment.
Dinner comprised of an excellent consommé, followed by roast lamb with sprigs of rosemary and a very sharp-tasting summer pudding. The accompanying wines, a 1925 Dr Burklin-Wolf Forster Kirchenstuck Reisling, a 1920 Chateau Latour Bordeaux and a 1930 Straveecchio Siciliano Reserve, and a 1920 Cossart Gordon Madeira with the cheese, all added to the occasion. Cynthia was not sure whether this was what Amy and Horace drank all the time, or they were just showing off. Even with her own financial resources these would be wines which would rarely, if ever, be seen on her table.  
The whole meal was a pleasant and very informal experience until the introduction of spirits and cigars. Against all conventions, the ladies remained in the room, although as things worked out it soon became apparent that Amy wished she had invited them to the drawing room for liqueurs. As Horace was in London, she had nobody to support her, so the conversation, led by Colonel Snowden, was allowed to take its own course without any restrictions. 
‘Were you in the last lot Harrington?’ ask the Colonel.
Cynthia was always fascinated by the use of surnames at these events, probably something to do with a public-school education.
‘Yes. I was a young medic.’
‘Not one of those conchie fellows who carried the stretchers were you?’ the Colonel retorted with a throaty laugh.
‘No. A doctor actually. Saw too much suffering so have not practiced since the war. Incidentally, those ‘conchie fellows’ you mention were very brave men. I would not have liked to have gone out into no-man’s land collecting the wounded unarmed.’ 
‘Aah,’ the colonel said, rather apologetically, ‘good point, quite so. What about you Newton?’
There was a slight pause as if Newton was afraid of giving something away. 
‘Yes. RFC then RAF.’
‘A flyboy. One advantage of being up there is that you don’t get your boots dirty.’ 
If the statement was meant as a joke, it fell very flat and there was no response from around the table.
‘Before you ask me Colonel, I did get my boots dirty. Arrived in 1917 just in time for Passchendaele. Royal Berkshires.’ Richard said. 
‘Aah, the biscuit boys. Fine regiment…’
Jane interjected, ‘I notice Colonel that you haven’t asked the ladies what we did. Don’t you think we had a part to play? Apart from Amy and Cynthia who are too young, the rest of us are of an age when the war had a significant influence on our lives, one way or another.’ From the tone of her voice it was obvious that she was getting rather annoyed with the Colonel’s assumptions. ‘I was a nurse, more precisely a VAD, alongside Miss Gilchrist here. So, we both saw plenty of action.’
‘I do apologise, dear lady. I have obviously wrongly assumed that because of your background you had spent the time raising money for bandages at village fetes and such like.’  His comments were now veering towards the offensive, mainly due to the large amount of wine and whisky he had consumed, and for a short while an awkward silence fell on the gathering. That was until the Colonel, now supported by Harrington, started again by extolling the virtues of Herr Hitler and his politics.
‘Mark my words,’ said Harrington’ that man will go a long way. He is turning Germany around. Wouldn’t surprise me if he became President or Chancellor soon. Hindenburg can’t go on for ever!’
For the first time Louise spoke. ‘We could do with someone like him in England to sort things out.  Mosley for instance. This National Government is not doing much for the country, and I would not class MacDonald as an inspiring leader.’ At this she looked rather embarrassed for having interrupted and said very little else of note.

As hostess, Amy tried desperately to bring the conversation away from politics, but the group had fragmented into two factions, one interested in taking the discussion further, and the other showing disdain but nonetheless being very polite. Harrington and the Colonel then left, replenished drinks in hand, to play billiards, and after politely declining Amy’s invitation to play cards the ladies and Newton retired for the night. 
‘Richard, do you fancy a stroll on the terrace? We can take a drink with us.’
‘No thanks. It’s been a long day. You stay if you like.’
He gave her a cursory peck on the cheek and walked towards the stairs.

Cynthia topped up her wine and went out of the French doors onto the terrace. It was still warm so rather than walk, she sat on one of the benches and took stock.  One pompous army Colonel, one medic apparently affected by his experiences, two pro-Nazi wives, one very quiet, and reserved pilot and two VADs seemingly not interested in politics. Who out of this group then was her contact?

















CHAPTER 3
Breakfast was buffet style. If the Colonel and Harrington were nursing hangovers, which by rights they should be, there was no outward sign. Cynthia helped herself to 
sausages, bacon and tomatoes while Richard had the kedgeree. Sheila served coffee and tea at the table.
‘It’s a lovely day again,’ said Amy. ‘Please feel free to make use of all the facilities. We don’t have a swimming pool I’m afraid, the house is too old and anyway it is usually too cold to need one outdoors, but we do have a trout lake if any of you want to go fly-fishing. The rods are kept in one of the cupboards by the door. Patrick will show you.  You know where the tennis racquets and croquet mallets are. And, if you ride, I can easily arrange for the local stables to provide some horses. Just let me know. We can have coffee at around 11.00 and then a simple lunch at around 1. But don’t worry if you miss either…just enjoy yourselves and relax.’
‘What would you like to do Richard?’ whispered Cynthia.
‘I wouldn’t mind fishing, not done it for some time, but I expect I’ll have to put up with the Colonel. He seems like the hunting and fishing type. But I suppose the lake will be big enough to give me some space.’
Before he could say anymore the Colonel tapped him on the shoulder. ‘Fancy a bit of fishing old man? Harrington and I thought we would give it a try. Catch our lunch…what do you say?’
Richard gave Cynthia a wry smile. ‘Excellent idea Colonel. Need to change into something more suitable first, so see you in the lobby in thirty minutes. To save time perhaps you could sort out some equipment for me. I’m sure Patrick will help.’
As the Colonel went off to badger Harrington, Richard looked at Cynthia. 
‘What will you do?’
‘I don’t fancy tennis or croquet, and frankly I don’t want to get tied up with the others. I’d really like to fish as well, but I am not sure I would be very welcome, so I think I’ll explore the grounds and look at the gardens. Always useful to get some ideas for ours.’ She said that knowing that Richard had no interest in their garden whatsoever. As long as the lawn was neat and tidy, that was all that mattered to him.
‘OK, see you later then. Enjoy your morning.’
Cynthia poured herself another cup of coffee and walked out onto the edge of the lawn. 
After a couple of minutes of contemplating the peace and quiet she went back indoors to change into more suitable shoes and pick up a notepad to jot down the names of any new plants she liked. When she returned the other ladies were outside as well. Louise was knitting, Marjorie and Jane were reading, and Miss Gilchrist sat on the low wall seemingly sketching the front of the house. There was no sign of Mr Newton. 
Cynthia was as good as her word. She spent a relaxed morning just walking across the extensive lawns and admiring the plants in the well-manicured flower beds. Lots of Rosamunde roses and sweet peas, swathes of orange marigolds, ‘Love in the Mist’ filling the gaps and tall blue delphiniums standing imperious behind them all. 
She found a secluded arbour and sat to listen to the sounds of the bees, watch the numerous butterflies and take in the various fragrances…but not for long as her meditation was interrupted. 

‘Lady Cynthia…what a lovely morning. Sorry to disturb the peace and quiet, but may we sit with you?’
Cynthia tilted her head into the sun to find the silhouettes of Miss Gilchrist and Mr Newton looking down on her.
‘Please forgive the intrusion but we would like a quiet word, and this seems like the ideal time and location.’ 
Although Cynthia was expecting some sort of covert meeting, she would not have considered these two to be the ones to contact her. Her incredulity must have been apparent as before she could say anything Newton spoke. 
‘Let me give you some background. My name is not Newton, and although I was a pilot in the RFC, I was badly shot up over the Somme and sent back home for treatment and convalescence. I lied last night about my involvement with the RAF because by the time that was formed in April 1918 I had been seconded to an entirely different job. My real name is Wing-Commander William Lawrie. Bill to my friends.’ 
‘And I am not Gilchrist, and I was certainly not a VAD, neither was Jane, but that’s her real name by the way. Mine is Hannah Park.  We were actually Section Controllers in the WAACs until they disbanded us 1921 and we were offered another job with Bill. Jane and I are here this weekend as walk on parts so to speak. Think of us as a little bit of window dressing if you like.  My clothes last night were a deliberate ploy to shock the ladies. Did you notice they did not talk to me all evening? They probably thought I have lesbian tendencies, which of course is what I wanted to portray. Amy is well aware of who we really are and why we wanted to meet you and I am sorry to have deceived you. Your husband also knows, although as yet, he does not appreciate why. We will be talking to him later.’
‘But what has all this to do with me?’ asked Cynthia.
‘You come highly recommended from mutual contacts, namely Horace, and you have all the attributes that we need, namely well educated, an accomplished linguist, an unconventional aristocrat not tied to protocols and the innate ability to mix in high circles, even though, as you have demonstrated this weekend, you don’t necessarily enjoy it.’
Bill looked at her seriously. ‘Lady Cynthia, in short, we would like you to take part in something concerning the security of the country. I can assure you that you will never be in any danger, but your role will be highly significant. This really is not the place to discuss anything in detail. What we would like you to do is think it over and then we will arrange a meeting in London. We will not be offended if you say no, but we sincerely hope that you’ll join us. In the meantime, we would simply like you to listen and observe while your here. Another pair of eyes and ears are always useful.’
With that, they both got up and walked away as if they had simply been discussing the flowers and the view.
Cynthia was totally taken aback, and kept asking the question…why her? 













CHAPTER 4
Her mind was racing too much to just sit so she walked around to the lake to watch the men fishing and to catch up with Richard. Harrington and Snowden were mid-stream in waders, but fortunately he had made the decision to fish from the bank, so they were able to talk.
‘How has your morning been?’ he asked.
‘Why did you not tell me that you knew I was being set up for something?’
‘I couldn’t. One of the reasons I was late arriving yesterday was because a couple of guys from MI5 came to the bank yesterday lunchtime asking me about our business dealings in Germany. I spent about half-an hour with them talking about various things which seemed to placate them, and then they left. They did say it was all off the record and I was not to discuss our meeting with anyone…not even you. They simply said they might contact you to clarify what I’d said, which thinking about it was a little odd. Why? What’s happened?’
‘We are being watched. Carry on fishing and make out we are having a normal conversation.’
Richard deliberately took a long time attaching a fly to the line, while he listened to Cynthia’s explanation of her earlier meeting.
‘So, I have to decide whether or not I want to be a part of this…not knowing what ‘this’ is…and let them know as soon as possible. However, they did just ask me to listen and observe but I really have no idea what they mean by that? Smile, we are being looked at again. We’ll talk about this later.’
She gave a token wave to Harrington and Snowden, turned, and walked back towards the house. 
The rest of the day passed very much like the previous one. There was a cold buffet for lunch, although only the women and Bill were there as the others remained at the lake, then a restful afternoon and then dinner in the evening. 

For some reason the Colonel had decided to dress for dinner, black tie, dinner jacket, crisp white shirt with winged collar and a purple cummerbund. Marjorie was also dressed for the occasion. Almost everybody else was dressed smart, but casual, so the Snowden’s had either got the dress code wrong, or they were making a point that this was what everyone was supposed to do on these occasions. The result was that he in particular looked more pompous than usual. They also arrived later than the others so were able to ‘make an entrance.’  The other exception was Miss Gilchrist, Hannah. She was wearing almost an identical set of clothes to Snowden, a very sleek black trouser suit with matching waistcoat. She was even sporting a half-hunter watch on an ‘albert’ to complete the ensemble. The monocle was back in place and her cigarette was now in a long holder held between her index finger and thumb.  She sat on the couch with one arm stretched out behind Janes’ shoulder. 
The beef at dinner was excellent and the selection of wines as impeccable as the night before; the 1920 Mirafiore’s Barbaresco was particularly good and the Cossart Madeira 1920 was great with the cheeses. Unlike the previous evening the only chat around the table was generally small talk, and nothing at all contentious. In fact, Cynthia considered it quite a pleasant experience. Although this was soon to change.
After dinner there was a distinct division of the group. At Amy’s suggestion, and after the previous evening’s experience, the ladies decided to take their drinks to the drawing room and leave the men to their discussion and their billiards. 
‘Have you ever been to Germany Miss Gilchrist?’ asked Marjorie, ‘I’m not too sure they would be very tolerant of your obvious lifestyle.’ Her tone of voice suggested that she had taken great delight in being deliberately critical. 
‘Yes, I have. I had a few great months in Berlin and despite what you think the clubs were full of independent spirits like me. They were very hedonistic times. Have you not heard of Magnus Hirschfeld who set up the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee in Germany? If not, you should read some of his work, it may enlighten and educate you.  However, I agree that with the present political situation in Germany, those days, and his views, may be lost to history. Have you been there?’
‘Yes, quite recently actually. Peter and I were guests at a party similar to this. Some of his military friends invited us. Like us and our views on the National Government, they feel there is a need for strong leadership to bring some order back into the country.  They are fed up with still having to take the blame for the last war and they want to get Germany back to its rightful place in the world. They were convinced that Hitler is the man to do it. He is very popular.’
Listening to the conversation, Cynthia realised it was obviously the ‘drink’ talking but she was intrigued and found it interesting that there had almost been a role reversal. Last night it had been the Colonel who had expounded his political views, tonight it was his wife. 
Marjorie turned her attention to her. 
‘I presume you’ve travelled Lady Cynthia. Have you been to Europe?’
‘Oh yes of course. Spent some time in Paris and also in Heidelberg. I was abroad long enough to speak to the locals, but not that well.’  she said, deliberately underplaying her knowledge of both countries and her fluency in their languages. ‘I love the countries and the culture but have no interest at all in the politics. I never have. Anything for an easy life is my motto.’ 
‘Ah,’ Marjorie replied. ‘That’s the problem with your generation. You are often too laissez-faire and permissive. You need to have a better understanding of what is going on in the world. Despite what you say you cannot ignore the political climate. Too much is being talked about socialism and peoples’ rights. Tight structure and control are what we need. Don’t you agree Louise?’
‘Couldn’t agree more. As I said last night, we would do well to listen to Mosley, although didn’t he start off as a Conservative and then became a Socialist.  I know he started the New Party last year, but I am not sure how long it will last as most of his colleagues like Baldwin and Strachey have resigned already. He does have some interesting opinions on how to deal with unemployment, but I have to say what does concern me is this ‘Biff Boy’ militia that he’s set up. Not sure what it will lead to, but something needs to happen. Bob and I keep saying that we should go abroad and see what other countries are doing, but his nerves are not really up to it, so we are quite happy to stay at home. That’s not to say that we don’t keep up with what’s going on. Although I am not sure that the papers or the radio are always giving us the real story.’ 

At this point Richard came into the room and walked across to Cynthia. ‘Excuse me interrupting ladies,’ and looking towards his wife ‘I’m going up to bed, unless you want to bring your drink and we take a stroll around the grounds.’
‘What a great idea, I will go and get my coat. Any of you ladies like to join us? Only Jane accepted the invitation. 
‘Wait here while I get a wrap.’
‘In that case I will retire’ said Miss Gilchrist, politely nodding to the others as she left. 
‘I think that’s a good idea,’ said Marjorie ‘What about you Louise, Amy? Are you staying up with the men or going to bed?’ Amy, who had said nothing all evening, was almost asleep already, so took little persuading.
‘No, I’ll do the same. Goodnight everybody, see you at breakfast’ and followed Louise and Marjorie to the stairs.
Richard and Cynthia went out of the French doors onto the terrace and were soon joined by Jane.
‘Well, that was an interesting evening,’ said Richard.
‘Not here’ said Jane pointing to the open windows above. ’Let’s go down to the Lake and just in case we are being watched act relaxed’…and then proceeded to giggle loudly. Out of sight and earshot, she became more serious. ‘How was your evening Richard?’ she asked.
‘The only topic of conversation was the state of the country and politics in general. That is with the exception of Bill who just sat with his brandy while reading a book. They certainly have some strong views and the name dropping was amazing…Mosley, Brown, Nicholson for starters. They both seem to be well in with that crowd.’
‘We had the same’ said Jane, ‘I do wonder why they are all here. Amy does not appear to hold the same views, they do not know our real identities, so perhaps they are here to recruit you to their circle. But how did they know you would be here?  I think they would need more evidence of your interest before asking you to sign up, so to speak.  But don’t worry, we will provide that for them,’ she added with a smile.  
As the temperature was dropping, they decided to return to the house, placed their now empty glasses on the sideboard and went upstairs. 
‘Goodnight to you both,’ whispered Jane.









CHAPTER 5
‘Good morning,’ said Amy as she entered the dining room. ‘I hope everybody slept well. It’s going to be a lovely day again. I know that most of you are leaving after lunch, but if you are interested, I will be going to Morning Service at 11.00 in the village if anyone would like to join me.
The Harringtons and Snowdens declined, but Cynthia, although not a regular church goer, agreed to go.
‘I’ll come with you Amy. We’ve not had much chance for a natter, you’ve seemed to have been so busy. What time shall we leave?’
‘We’ll walk down, so how about 10.30? It’s not very far.’
Later, while the others went off to organise their own entertainment, including Jane and Hannah who had arrived late for breakfast, Amy and Cynthia, now joined by Richard and Bill set off for Church. 
Outside the gates at the end of the drive Amy slowed her pace and looked at Cynthia. 
‘This is another one of those clandestine moments I’m afraid. We needed to get out of the house. I knew the others would not accept my invitation, so I’m glad you did. I know Bill wants a word with you, so if Richard doesn’t mind, he’ll come to church with me, so we have something in common to talk about when we return, while you two find somewhere else to have a chat. The pub doesn’t open until 12 so you can’t go there, but there are a couple of benches in the churchyard. You shouldn’t be disturbed.’
‘Good idea,’ said Bill, ‘At least we will all be going in the same direction should anyone be watching. Although I doubt if they will. How long is the service?’
‘No Communion today, so should be over in 45 minutes. Does that give you enough time?’
‘Yes, plenty. Richard, either I or Hannah will find time to talk to you after lunch, perhaps when the others have left. Your role will be slightly different to Cynthia’s, that is if you both accept our offer.’ 
St Andrew’s was a typical flint-faced English Parish Church, with a tall tower housing redundant bells as there were no bell-ringers except itinerant ones collecting towers. It was now much too big for the population, but nonetheless still serving the needs of a community that had changed a great deal since it was first built. While Amy and Richard entered through an old lych gate and walked along the path to the Church porch, Bill and Cynthia diverted around the back into the churchyard and sat on a rather damp wooden seat.
‘Well, have you had time to think about what we discussed yesterday?’ asked Bill
‘To be honest, I am very intrigued, but I would like to know what I am getting in to before I fully commit. Are you able to tell me more, or are you restricted by secrecy?’
‘That’s fair enough. I can tell you the basic outline, but the full details will have to come later. As I said yesterday, Amy is in on this at a number of levels. First, we asked her to arrange this house party and we gave her a list of those we wanted her to invite. She already knew them, but not that well. It is a shame that the Davies’ are not here, but we can deal with them some other time. Second, as you know, Horace is in the Foreign Office, well he is a little more than that, he works with us and in fact you could say that in some ways he’s my boss. When we were planning our little venture and looking for someone to work for us on the inside Amy immediately thought of you. Hence you’re being here.’
‘OK, that explains the invitation out of the blue after so many years, but not what you actually want me to do.’
‘Basically, we would like you to infiltrate the circle of friends that the Harringtons and Snowdens mix with. They are regulars at a number of house parties around the country and we want someone, such as yourself, to get involved with them and report back to us. 
Now, in order to do this properly, we need to provide you with some political provenance. Quite rightly, you have been very non-committal about your opinions this weekend, and by the way I have to commend you on being very restrained, Snowden can be very arrogant and rude at times, incidentally, he was only a Major…but Colonel gives him a little more kudos. Horace is going to arrange for you to accompany Richard on an extended business trip to Germany where you will get to meet some of the clique surrounding Hitler. We don’t want you to spy for us, as such, we just need you to blend in as Richard’s wife and perhaps give the impression that you agree with their views. We are hoping that when you return you will be invited to join like-minded groups in this country. As you have already gathered from the conversations over dinner, their views and opinions are very right wing.
Despite what people think, we are still concerned that there could be diplomatic problems in the near future, and we need to know the people working against us internally. If, god forbid, there was another war, we would need to know who they are, if you understand my meaning.’
Well, that’s all I can tell you now. What do you think? As I said Richard will be told about all this later.’
‘Well,’ replied Cynthia somewhat hesitantly, ‘I’m amazed that you have picked me for this. It sounds like quite an adventure…so count me in. However, although exciting, there is no danger attached to this is there?’
‘No, there shouldn’t be, but can’t guarantee it,’ he paused, ‘It sounds as though the service has finished. If you then agree to join us, I need to make a call from the box by the pub before we go back to the house, so if you will excuse me for a couple of minutes, I’ll catch you up.’
They both strolled to the front porch and while Cynthia waited for Amy and Richard to come out, Bill ran across the road to the phone.
‘Where’s Bill?’ asked Amy
‘Just gone to make a call, we’re to walk on and he’ll catch us up.’ 
They turned out onto the road and ambled back to the house. Bill joined them just in time to regroup at the gate and offered up a packet of cigarettes to which all declined. 
‘Just had a thought,’ he said. ‘It might look a little odd if we stayed behind after the others leave. Would you be able to come to London on Wednesday and we’ll meet in the office? I think it would make more sense.’ He took a business card from his wallet and handed it to Richard.
‘Imperial Aggregates. 35. Cromwell Rd. London,’ said Richard. ‘OK, what time?’
‘Would 11.am be OK?’
‘Fine. We’ll be there’
They continued to walk up the drive and into the house.
‘Good service,’ asked the Colonel, coming down the stairs.
‘The usual,’ replied Amy. ‘Straight out of Common Prayer so can’t go wrong with that, just like reading a script.’
‘Particularly liked the hymns. The choir was so loud I’m surprised the whole village didn’t hear them.’ said Cynthia with a smile.

After lunch, which was a rather muted affair, all the bags were brought into the hallway. The guests gathered to say their farewells with the usual…’pleasure to meet you,’ and ‘may see you again sometime’ before they went outside to wait for their cars. As Richard was the last to arrive his was the first to be collected. His 1930 green MG. M came around the corner faster than it should have done and pulled up in front of him
‘Lovely car, sir,’ said the footman handing over the keys. 
‘Thanks, she is isn’t she.’ Richard was unsure whether is expected to tip on these occasions, but nonetheless palmed half-a crown to the driver.
‘Thank you very much sir,’ he said without opening his hand.
Richard called out, ‘See you at home, Darling,’ and drove off. 
Cynthia’s was the next to be delivered which meant she did not have to wait around and make small talk. She gave Amy a kiss on the cheek, a cursory wave to the group, got into the driver’s seat and followed Richard down the drive, much relieved to be going. A curious weekend she thought to herself.































CHAPTER 6 

The offices of ‘Imperial Aggregates’, 35 Cromwell Rd, turned out to be almost opposite the Natural History Museum, one of Cynthia’s favourite places as a child. She had always been intrigued by the gargoyles in the shape of animal heads and the various relief sculptures of flora and fauna depicted on the exterior walls. 
They went up a short flight of steps to the front door set between two porticoed columns, and rang the bell, the sound of which they could hear echoing around the interior.  The door was opened by a young woman with short black hair, wearing a cardigan over a white blouse and a grey skirt. A functional outfit thought Cynthia.
‘Please come in’, she said politely. ‘You are expected, but would you wait in here until Wing-Commander Laurie can collect you?’
She led them into a small room with a very high, decorated ceiling. From the little they had seen so far; the building had the trappings of once being an elegant Georgian family house which, when built, would have been the outskirts of the city.
‘May I offer you tea of coffee?’
Glancing at Richard, Cynthia replied ‘Coffee would be lovely thank you, neither of us take milk or sugar.’
When she returned carrying a large tray with more cups she was closely followed by Bill Jane and Hannah, the latter out of costume and more soberly dressed.
‘Good morning to you both,’ he said shaking their hands, ‘thought we might all meet in here, rather than my office. Please help yourself to the coffee. Thankyou Felicity, that will be all for now.’ She left, taking the empty tray with her.
‘OK. Let’s get on. I need to say from the outset that the discussion we are about to have is confidential and nothing that is said is to go beyond these four walls. You will notice that nobody is taking notes, neither is Felicity here taking minutes. This is totally between us on a need to know basis. Are you both OK with that?’
‘Absolutely,’ said Richard.
‘Good. You got the gist of it at Denleigh, but we need to explain in some detail the background, and why we need your help. Jane and Hannah will interject when I forget something, which I usually do,’ he said with smile.
‘We mentioned some of this before, but it is worth going over it again to put your role into context. Are we correct in assuming that because you are here this morning, you are interested in helping us out?’
‘We are, but I presume we will have the opportunity to ask questions later,’ asked Cynthia.
‘Of course.’
Bill continued. ‘For some while now we have been very concerned about a specific group of people, mainly from the minor aristocracy and the so-called landed gentry, who have been expressing concerns about the political situation here in Britain. At the same time, they have been voicing their opinions and support for Mussolini’s Fascist regime in Italy, and the rise in popularity of National Socialism in Germany under Hitler. You would have heard some of this at dinner last Friday. Unfortunately, although we know who some of these people are, the Harringtons and Snowdens for instance, there are a lot more we’ve not heard of yet. Simply put, what we want you to do is help us find them? They may only be a group of eccentrics, but we know for certain that some of them are more than that. They seem determined to upset the status quo and force their views on people. Nobody wants another war, but as I said before, we need to know who is working against us. Alright so far?’
‘Yes, carry on’ 
‘Richard, after some of my colleagues came to your office last Friday, we have arranged through Horace to send you and Cynthia on a business trip to Germany on behalf of your bank. The Directors are not aware of the real reason for you going. As far as they are concerned, your bank is simply one of many who have been asked to consider business links with the possible new regime which, from what we have gathered, will soon be in power, either independently, or under some sort of coalition. 
What we would like you both to do is really rather simple, but vitally important.  As well as the usual round of business meetings, as an additional part of the package, shall we say, we will arrange invitations for you to attend various parties and social functions in Berlin where you will come into contact with members and supporters of the new regime. As far as you are concerned Richard, you simply carry on in your usual daily role of being a senior figure in the bank. Your economic knowledge and background, and your business acumen is all you need to draw on. Remember, they will have invited you, so their motive is to create commercial links with the bank.’
Turning to Jane and Hannah. ‘Rather than me do all the talking do either of you want to explain Cynthia’s role.’
Hannah walked across to get another cup of coffee, resumed her seat and looked directly at Cynthia. 
‘Your role is slightly different. As well as playing the archetypal, dutiful wife accompanying her husband on a necessary business trip, we would like you to do two things. First, as we asked you over the weekend, we want you to simply listen and observe. See if any British names are mentioned during social conversations and small talk, and in what context. One thing to remember, it might be useful that all parties are unaware that you are fluent in German, they may be more likely to say things in front of you if they think you don’t understand the language. Make sure you deliberately struggle when trying to converse to maintain the pretence.  
Second, and this may be a little more challenging, we would like you to express some support for National Socialism. This only needs to be subtle so don’t feel you have to shout anything from the rooftops’, she said with a smile. ‘Just a few comments dropped into a conversation will do’.
At this point Jane interjected. ‘That last point is very important. We don’t want you to seem too eager. Through the contacts we have there already, the people you meet will be aware of your title and status, so to some extent they will be trying to impress you and be seeking your support and endorsement, rather than the other way around. You will be in the country for seven days although it might be less. All we ask is that you be patient and see what happens. That’s all you need to do.’
Bill resumed the briefing. ‘At this point you are probably asking yourselves why?’.
Both Cynthia and Richard nodded. 
‘Before you ask us any questions, let me explain what we think might happen.  We are hoping that by providing you with this political provenance, and you demonstrating your interest in the regime, some people in this country might see the benefits of cultivating your friendship. How this will work out we’re not sure. It could make no difference at all, nothing happens, and you merely resume your normal lifestyle, or alternatively, you might find yourselves being invited to various events and social weekends among a new circle of likeminded acquaintances. Those are the people we are looking for. We want you to bring them out of the woodwork. We are playing a long game here. Once you come home, we will monitor the situation carefully and should you become part of this group, or groups, we will provide the necessary contacts for you to relay information back to us. To some extent think of yourselves as ‘sleepers’ working on our behalf... and as Jane said, be patient. Anyway, that is enough from me. Are you still interested, and do you have any questions?’
Cynthia looked at Richard. ‘Yes, we are still interested. Basically, as I see it, you just want us to play ourselves. But can I ask if anyone else will be aware of what we are doing, or do we have to accept the fact that we may be seen by some as being part of a conspiracy’.
‘That’s a good question’, said Hannah. ‘There is some risk of course that your new affiliations may be noticed by your friends, but we are confident that you have the necessary skills to deflect their concerns while at the same time maintaining your roles. 
‘By the way’, said Bill, ‘it is very unlikely that you will meet anybody at these events that you recognise. However, if you do, just react normally. We will also have some people working for us who will be looking out for you. Don’t try to guess who they are because there is no point in trying, you won’t spot them. However, if they ever have a need to approach you just remember my rank’. He tapped the side of his nose.
‘I supposed the important thing to know is when do we leave?’ asked Richard with a nervous laugh.
‘OK, now you’re in agreement we will arrange the invitations from our contacts in Germany, via your bank Richard to make it all official. Once we have the dates Felicity will sort out your travel and your accommodation. We will fly you to Berlin, you could drive and use the trip as a holiday break, but it would take more time and we want this up and running as soon as possible. This may take a few weeks to organise, but we will keep you informed. I presume we can phone you at home using the cover of Imperial Aggregates.’
‘That’s fine. I presume you have our number,’ said Cynthia
‘Oh yes’, said Jane with a wry smile. ‘We know everything about you!’







CHAPTER 7
The call came three weeks later.
‘Lady Cynthia? This is Felicity from Imperial Aggregates. I apologise for the delay, but we have now arranged all your hotel accommodation and your flights. The delay has been in organising the various meetings and social events. Conveniently, the latter will take place in the hotel in which you’re staying, although once you attend the first couple, others might follow. Am I correct in assuming that you hold valid passports?’
‘Yes, I checked as soon as we returned from the last meeting. Mine was issued in 1926 and still has Ireland, rather than Northern Ireland on the cover but I presume that is OK?’ 
‘Perfectly alright. You will be flying from Croydon with Deutsche Luft Hansa next Monday. I hope that will be convenient. Your return flights are booked for the week after, but we can change those if needs be. The Directors of your husband’s bank have been notified and they will be collecting together various documents and questions to support Richard’s work over there. All your travel documents will be delivered by a courier in the next couple of days and relevant letters of introduction, should you need them, will be sent to your husband via the bank. To make things easier for you we will have a car take you to the airport and there will be one waiting for you on your return.’
I think that is all. Do you have any immediate questions?’
‘No, I don’t think so? All fairly self-explanatory’.
‘Well, in that case have a pleasant trip. We have people there who will monitor your visit and we will get in touch once you get back home. Bon voyage.’

Early the next day, a motor-cycle courier arrived, withdrew a large envelope from the satchel he was wearing over his shoulder and handed it to Cynthia. She signed for the package, and after declining the offer of a drink, he returned to his 350cc Triumph Sport and rode back to London.  
Now that they were really going, Cynthia decided that she needed to enhance her evening wear, but rather than travel into London she got her car and drove to Northbrook Street in Newbury to the ladieswear department at the family-owned shop of Camp Hopson. An excuse to splash out she thought.

The following Monday, Cynthia and Richard were driven by an official looking black Daimler, to Croydon Airport situated on Purley Way to the south of London. It was still fairly new, as the terminal, the first one of its kind, had only been opened four years previously in 1928. Not only was it the first airport to have an air-traffic control centre, monitoring aircraft landing and taking off, it also boasted the world’s only airport hotel on-site. 
They walked through the multi-paned glass doors into a large room fitted out with wooden benches and desks more befitting to a library than a departure area. The brown furniture made the whole place rather sombre, a complete contrast to the gleaming white walls of the exterior but there were plenty of windows to let in the light.  It had two storeys and the upper floor, surrounded by a gallery, was supported by a number of tall plain white columns. In the centre of the floor was a tall hexagonal obelisk type structure on a wooden plinth. On each side there were two banks of clocks showing the times in the various countries that Imperial Airways, the main airline based at the airport, flew to. Along one side of the room were two desks, both manned by an official in a grey suit. 
 ‘Good morning Sir, Madam. May I see you tickets and passports please?’ 
They handed over the wallet they had been given by the office.
‘Have you flown with us before?’ he asked very politely.
‘No, in fact this is our first ever flight.’
‘Lovely. In that case, just a couple of things that you might not be aware of. We always advise passengers not to use the facilities on the aircraft unless absolutely necessary as the planes can be affected by turbulence. As this flight is just over two hours long, we suggest that you take advantage of lavatories here before your departure. You can find them on the other side of the building, through the archway to your right. Also, you may find it cold on the flight, so please take one of the blankets as you go out and leave it with the attendant when you land.’
He replaced their tickets in the wallet and handed it back with the passports. ‘Have an enjoyable trip.’
Although neither Cynthia nor Richard had ever flown before, they had been told by friends about the potential hazards. What the official did not say was that because the planes could lose height very suddenly, sick bowls were strategically placed under each seat; and the noise, especially at take-off was so loud that passengers could be permanently deafened. 
While Richard went to the Gents, Cynthia looked at some of the photos around the room recording specific events. She was unaware that the airport had so much history. There was one of Charles Lindberg taken in 1927 when he arrived from the United States in the Spirit of St Louis, and one of Amy Johnson just before she took off for her flight to Australia in 1930.
In another frame was a written description describing the introduction of the word Mayday as a distress signal. According to the text it had been the idea of a senior radio officer at Croydon, Frederick Mockford, and had nothing to with May 1st and maypole dancing, but was a derivation of the French word ‘m’aider’ meaning ‘help me’.
How amazing she thought, not only a first time in an aeroplane, but a history lesson as well. She strolled across to the book stall and flicked through a couple of magazines. Richard returned and they sat down on a nearby bench, which was functional but very uncomfortable, thought Cynthia, and waited to be called for their flight. 
After about ten minutes, which seemed a lot longer, all the passengers, about twenty-five of them were ‘invited’ to leave the building by another set of double doors at the back, where they were met by a flight attendant, one of the seven crew accompanying them on their journey. Collecting blankets on the way, they walked out to see the aircraft for the first time. It was a four-engine Junkers G38, the largest land-based passenger aeroplane in the world.  It was awesome. Richard estimated that it was about a quarter the size of a rugby pitch in length, almost half the size in width and about the height of a two-storey house. The wings themselves had been deliberately designed deep to house passenger cabins where those travellers who could afford it, could see the journey through forward facing windscreens built into the wing edges, rather than a side view in the main fuselage. It had an odd box-shaped tail plane.
They went up the steps and entered what could only be described as a very narrow corridor divided into three sections containing single seats on both sides. Strangely, considering the lack of space, there was a small lounge area at the back, next to the toilet. 
When they were all seated a different steward lifted a megaphone to his mouth and started to describe the flight. The engines were so loud, that it was impossible to hear anything being said in a normal voice.
‘Good morning Ladies and Gentlemen and welcome to this Deutsche Luft Hansa flight from London to Berlin which will take approximately two and a half hours. Once we get in the air, we will be cruising at a speed of 110 miles an hour at a height of 12000 feet. I notice that many of you have a blanket so please use them if you get cold. We have been in service for a year, so we should have sorted out all the problems by now,’ he joked. ‘After we have taken off, we will be serving you refreshments. If you have any questions or concerns, please raise your hand and I will do my best to answer them. Thankyou.’
With that he sat down in his seat while the plane slowly turned at the end of the runway. The noise and vibration at take-off were difficult to describe and both Richard and Cynthia felt apprehensive about the flight, thinking it might have been wiser to have journeyed by car instead. 












CHAPTER 8
The Junkers landed at Tempelhof airport in Berlin just over two hours later. They left their blankets on the seats and walked along the cabin and down the steps. Cynthia had never felt so relieved as she did when putting her feet on firm ground.
The 580-mile trip could not be described as being an enjoyable one. The persistent buffeting made it very uncomfortable, and on a couple of occasions Cynthia felt the need for the bowl under the seat, but fortunately did not have to resort to it. Trying to drink coffee was farcical, but both of them had great respect for the stewards who were serving it under often difficult circumstances. Richard thought that as well as the bowl, the airline should also issue bibs to all passengers to stop the tea and coffee getting on their clothes. One thing that worried them was that they would have to go through it all again when returning to London.
They followed the line of other passengers into the terminal building to have their passports checked and collect their luggage which had been left on a rack at the entrance. The room was not unlike the one at Croydon, with lots of wooden panelling making it dark and austere. The official made a cursory comparison between their passport photographs and their faces, stamped the documents, put a chalk mark on their cases, wished them a pleasant stay and pointed them in the direction of the exit. That was it, all over in 30 mins. 
They ignored the signs to the Underground Railway, Tempelhof had been the first airport to have one, because a car had been arranged to pick them up. They were met at the door by a short man dressed in a chauffeur’s uniform. 
‘Guten Morgen Dame und Gentleman. Willkommen in Berlin‘ 
‘Danke‘, said Richard, then remembering not to give her knowledge of the language away, Cynthia asked. ‘Sprechen Sie Englisch, unser Deutsch ist nicht sehr gut.‘ 
‘Ein bisschen. Ich werde es versuchen, aber verzeihen Sie meine Fehler. Sorry… a little. I will try, but please forgive my mistakes. Please get in the car.’
He opened the rear doors of an impressive white Mercedes, with the roof down, while a porter from the airport placed their luggage in the boot.  
The ride through the city brought back memories of the time Cynthia had spent here in the 20s. She made a mental note not to mention that she had been in Berlin before, it was supposed to be their first visit.
The car pulled up in front of the Hotel Adlon on Wilhelmstrasse. It was named after Lorenz Adlon, a successful wine merchant from Mainz, who had persuaded the Kaiser in 1905 to let him build a luxury hotel, it opened two years later. Situated in the heart of the government quarter the British Embassy was next door, the American Embassy around the corner and the French directly opposite on Pariser Platz, and only a short distance away from the Reich Chancellery and the Brandenberg Gate. 
‘Wow’, thought Cynthia, ‘they really do want us to make an impression if they have got us a room here. We are certainly not meant to keep a low profile.’ 
She got out of the car, while Richard tipped the driver. 
‘Danke, Herr‘.
He took Richard to one side, away from the doorman standing on the steps and whispered, ‘I will be your driver for the duration of your stay. The hotel will be able to contact me, but I have written my number on this piece of paper should you need me unofficially. I have been told that your business meetings will be held at the Reichsbank on Jagerstrasse, and most of the social events will be held here at the hotel.  However, your wife can use me for seeing the sights if she likes.’ 
He smiled, ‘you will notice that my English has improved…the conversation at the airport was simply by-play. I am in fact employed by the embassy.’ He acknowledged the building next door to the hotel. ‘Whenever we meet officially, I will speak German first to keep up the pretence. Is there anything else I can do for you now?’
‘No. That’s absolutely fine thanks. Oh, do you have a list of the meetings?’ I’ve not got them yet.’
‘You will find them in a folder in your room sir. First one is tomorrow morning at 11.00. I will be here but will have you paged to make it look formal.’ As he returned to the car, he called 
‘Guten Tag’ rather loudly over his shoulder. 

A liveried footman came down a couple of steps to collect their cases. He led them under the canopy that extended to the edge of the pavement, through the doorway, opened by the doorman, into a stunning lobby with huge square marble columns. It was all in stark contrast to the somewhat austere exterior and a great example of the Neo-Baroque style common in the late 19th century and one which the architects, Carl Gause and Robert Leibnitz, would have been familiar with.  
The reception area was ahead of them in the central space between two of the columns. To the right was a wide semi-circular staircase which swept up to the gallery on the next floor. Behind the open-plan desk was a seating area containing magnificent button-backed armchairs and couches covered in a deep green and grey fabric. They were arranged around an internal Japanese themed garden in the middle of which stood a tall water fountain with large bronze water-lily petals at the top and a circle of elephants, half-way down the column. 
They walked across a large red carpet to Reception where they were greeted by a man formally dressed in black jacket, pin-striped trousers and a winged collar.
‘Guten Morgen. Willkommen im Hotel Adlon, Haben Sie eine Reservierung?‘
Seeing Cynthia’s puzzled look, he said. ‘Would you prefer that I spoke in English, or French?’
‘English would be lovely as our German is almost non-existent. Sorry to say that we only know the basics I’m afraid, bier, wein, wo ist das Badezimmer? To answer to your question, yes, we do have a reservation in the name of Lady Cynthia and Mr Richard Childreth.’
‘The language is not a problem madam. May I see your passports please?’
Richard handed them over for scrutiny.
‘Would you like to keep them, or would you prefer that I put them in the safe? During these present times I would suggest the latter, as you would not want to have them stolen.’
‘Do we have a safe in our room?’ Richard asked.
‘Yes Sir’.
‘In that case I think we would prefer to keep them.’
‘As you wish. Here are your keys, room 204. The porter has already taken your luggage to you room. The lifts are over there in the corner, but if you would like a drink you can order a coffee from the lounge here or go into the bar. The list of facilities we have to enhance your visit will be in your desk. I wish you a pleasant stay.’
‘May I commend you on your English,’ said Cynthia, ‘It’s impeccable.’
‘Thank you, Madam,’ with a slight nod, ‘I was in fact educated in England for a time before attending the Sorbonne where I learnt my French. Have a good day.’
He then turned his attention to another couple with whom he proceeded to converse in perfect French.
They walked towards the Japanese garden, ‘Shall we go to our room, or would you like a drink first?’
Cynthia thought for a moment. ‘I could actually do with a drink after that journey, so shall we explore the bar. I want something stronger than a coffee.’
They walked into another elaborately decorated area. The bar itself was on the right of the room and had a shiny brass rail extending a few inches out from it all the way around, which meant that anyone sitting on one the numerous upright stools would not get any residue spillage on their sleeves. The walls were surrounded by mirrors which added to the impression that it was larger than it actually was. Next to it was a seating area with small tables where patrons were ordering from one of a number of white aproned waiters flitting between the chairs.
Cynthia and Richard opted for a stool and a barman immediately came towards them.
‘Was wirst du haben'
Richard managed to work this out…
‘A beer and a red wine, please’.
‘Ah, English. I’m sorry. I will remember next time.’
He returned with the drinks and placed them on the counter on top of thick paper coasters displaying the hotel’s crest, together with a dish containing various snacks. 
‘May I have your room number please?’
‘204,’ replied Cynthia, before clinking glasses with Richard. ‘Cheers, or Prost as they say here.’ 
Cynthia scanned the other guests in the room. They were all of a type, their clothes and demeanour betraying their affluence.  
‘If they are dressed like this for an afternoon drink, what will they be like at dinner,’ she pondered. She also wondered if the dresses she had brought with her were stylish enough. She was wealthy in her own right, but rarely in her life had she flaunted it. 
They sat for a while then decided to explore the ground floor before going up to their room. 
The receptionist had been correct. The hotel had almost everything to cater for the needs of the type of clientele who stayed. As well as the bar, there was a large restaurant for formal meals and a café serving coffee and cakes, one whole wall of which comprised of large French doors which could be unfastened to reveal an open area leading onto a garden.
It also boasted a ladies’ lounge, a library, a music room, a smoking room, a barber’s shop, a cigar shop and even a palm-court.  Cynthia noticed that there did not seem to be a ladies’ hairdresser, which seemed a bit odd considering everything else that was on offer. She would need to ask where the nearest salon was if she wanted to look her best for any social events. 
After ambling for a few minutes down numerous vaulted corridors, they made their way to their room. Instead of using the lift, they went up the staircase. At the top of which they looked over the balustrade and took in the panoramic view of the whole lobby and reception area. It was very impressive. Their room was equally imposing. Comprising of a bedroom, small seating area, an ensuite bathroom which as well as the usual facilities had a double wash basin for some reason which Cynthia couldn’t fathom, and numerous wardrobes. From the two large windows they could see the Brandenberg gate at the end of the Unter den Linden. Their cases had not been unpacked, but instead had been placed on deep shelves near the closet which could be folded back against the wall when not required. 
They found the list of Richard’s appointments and a couple of business cards, along with some general information in the folder as the driver had indicated, and there was a rather ornate card from Gerda and Franz Stammer, from the Reichsbank, inviting them both for drinks the following evening at 7.30 in the hotel library. Dress informal.
They had nothing to do now, except dinner in the restaurant and a good night’s sleep, before the work and the play-acting started tomorrow.










CHAPTER 9
After a night’s sleep interspersed with memories of her flight, Cynthia awoke to the sun dappling the curtains. While she showered and dressed, Richard decided to take the opportunity to get his hair cut before his meeting. He would see her in the dining room for breakfast, Cynthia arrived first, to be joined a little later by a neatly trimmed Richard. 
‘What do you think?’ asked Richard stroking his hair.
‘Very Germanic…only joking. Looks fine.’
The waiter came over to their table.
‘Guten Morgen möchten Sie Kaffee oder Tee’.
‘We’ll both have coffee please no milk or sugar thank you’. She berated herself, I must remember not to understand the language. But then thought that Kaffee and Tee was easy to understand even for those with no knowledge of German. 
They perused the menu and when the waiter returned with their drinks, they ordered an omelette and the smoked fish’.
‘What will you do while I’m at the bank?’, Richard asked.
‘I’ll go for a walk. Any idea how long your meeting will last because I can always wait for you if you like. I thought I might get my hair done for this evening, while I’m out. Need to ask reception where they can recommend.’
‘I have no idea, either about timings, or what the meeting is about. Probably best if you do your own thing today and we’ll get together later. 
‘Fine with me.’
After they had finished, Richard went to their room to pick up his briefcase, while Cynthia enquired about a hairdresser.’
‘We recommend one just around the corner Madam, on Pariser Platz. It’s called Forrester’s and most of the stylists will speak English. Would you like me to make a reservation for you?’
‘That would be very kind. Anytime around 10 would be good’.
He picked up the phone and dialled a number from memory. This was obviously a common request.
‘Guten Morgen. Darf ich im Namen von Lady Cynthia Childreth für 10 Uhr reservieren. Sie ist zu Gast im Hotel. Danke vielmals.’
‘All booked for 10, Madam. They are aware that you are staying here, so the cost will be cheaper as we have an arrangement with them. Is there anything else I can do for you?’
‘No, thank you. You have been very helpful…oh, yes there is. Do you have a map of the local area in English?’
He took one out of a rack at the side of the counter and gave it to her.
She nodded, smiled, turned and went back to her room. 
‘I have no idea how formal this is going to be, so not sure what to take with me,’ said Richard. ‘Perhaps just a notepad, and the papers from the folder that the bank gave me in case they’re needed. Quite apprehensive about all this now. Must remember just to be myself.’
‘You’ll be fine. It will simply be an initial meeting of like-minded people. I wouldn’t think any important issues will be discussed until later in the week. Don’t worry. I’d better go now and find the salon. See you back here later. Have fun.’
She gave him a hug and a quick peck on the cheek, gathered her purse, put the map into her jacket pocket and walked out. 
She emerged from the hairdressers an hour later much lighter in the pocket. ‘They might have an arrangement with the hotel, but that was a very expensive haircut,’ she thought. 
She looked at her watch and decided that as Richard would be leaving soon, she would just go for a stroll and not return to the hotel until later. 
She walked back to the Unter den Linden, the main thoroughfare that goes west-east from Paiser Platz, where she was, to the royal palace in the Lustgarten park. Fortunately, not only did her map give her the street layout, it was also a mini-guide book, with various numbered paragraphs describing the relevant sights. The first was the Brandenberg Gate to her left. She referred to the guide.
‘The Brandenburg Gate was built between 1788-91 on the orders of King Frederick William II of Prussia and was originally called the Peace Gate. It was designed by Carl Langhans. It is on the site of the former city gate on the Berlin to Brandenburg road. It is the monumental entry onto the Unter den Linden. On the top of the gate visitors will see the Quadriga, a chariot pulled by four horses and driven by Victoria the Roman goddess of victory. In 1806 after defeating the Prussians at the Battle of Jena, Napoleon used the arch for a triumphal procession and took the Quadriga back to Paris. It was returned in 1814 after the Prussians occupied Paris, and it was adapted. Victoria was given a Prussian eagle and an Iron Cross on her lance and a wreath of oak leaves’.

‘Fascinating,’ thought Cynthia. 
It was obvious from the map that the Unter den Linden was very much part of the story although she realised that the street pre-dated the gate by two hundred years. She read the description.
‘In the 16th Century, the Unter den Linden was a bridle path that allowed the Elector of Brandenberg to access his hunting grounds in the Tiergarten. In 1647 it was replaced by a boulevard of Linden trees. In 1851 the statue of Frederick II of Prussia was erected on the centre strip.’ 
While Cynthia was enjoying being a tourist, Richard had been collected and driven to his meeting at the bank.  
He was met at the door and taken up a flight of stairs to the office of Franz Stammer.
‘Guten Morgen Herr Childreth,’ extending his hand in greeting. ‘I presume you would prefer to conduct our meetings in English, unless of course I am doing you a disservice and you are fluent in German.’ He smiled.
‘On the contrary, Herr Stammer. I have very little knowledge of the language beyond the basics, so English will be better. Thankyou’.
‘We will be joined by a couple of my colleagues in a few minutes. In the meantime, may I offer you refreshments. Oh, before I forget, my wife insisted that I remind you of our get together this evening. We hope you are able to come.’
‘No, to the refreshments, and yes we will be delighted to attend. In fact, tell her we are very much looking forward to it.’
Once the other delegates were introduced, they all sat around the large table to the side of the room. 
‘Let me explain why we invited you Herr Childreth.’
‘Richard, please, less formal.’
‘Thankyou. Well Richard, you will be aware that Germany has been through somewhat of an economic upheaval over the past few years. In simple terms, this bank is the direct result of the Dawes Plan which was introduced in 1924 and to some extent stabilised our economy but it didn’t work because our Government were unable to keep up with the reparation payments imposed at the end of the war. This was replaced by the Young Plan which reduced the country’s payments by 20% over 58 years. But the crash on Wall Street back in 1929 meant that the US withdrew a lot of its money from Europe and recalled many of the outstanding debts. If that wasn’t bad enough, the lack of trade has had a serious effect on our economy and our employment rate is now over 40%.  Although President Hoover waived payments for a year it has had little effect and we are still in crisis. There will be a conference in Lausanne in a couple of weeks where we hope some of the issues will be resolved but, whatever happens, I cannot see a quick solution. I think our Government will again refuse to pay. What we are looking for from your bank, is not only support in applying pressure on your delegates at Lausanne to bring this to some conclusion, but also use your bank’s knowledge and expertise in helping us out of the crisis. We have noticed, that despite being a small bank, you are holding your own against the larger ones, so you must be doing something right. If we don’t act soon, we will be at the mercy of the extremists in our society and to some extent we already are. Frankly, many of us have every sympathy with them. Germany has lived in austerity for too long and it is not of our making.’
The last statement was made rather forcefully Richard thought, as if Herr Stammer had been holding back his emotions during his monologue. His colleagues had said nothing at all.
Richard looked at all three across the table, ‘I am not sure what we can do as a bank to influence the decisions at Lausanne, because that will be in the hands of the Government economists. But I am sure we can share some of our expertise.’ 
‘That is all we ask,’ replied Stammer. He paused, ‘perhaps it might be best now to give you time to think about what we have said and meet again tomorrow. We will of course see you this evening, but it is an informal social gathering, not for business.’
With that he pressed a button on his desk summoning his secretary, rose from the chair and in turn with the others, shook Richard’s hand.
‘Ah, Frau Meiden, werden Sie Herrn Childreth bitte zu seinem Auto begleiten. Es sollte draußen warten.
‘I have asked Frau Meiden to take you to your car. Until this evening then…Guten Tag’.




























CHAPTER 10 
Richard arrived back at the hotel and found Cynthia sitting in the reception area with a coffee in front of her and the guide map in her hand. 
‘Didn’t expect to see you here so soon,’ she remarked. ‘How was it?’
‘A little odd. Basically, they would like the bank to support them at the Lausanne conference, which of course is totally beyond our remit as this is Government level, and tap into our expertise. They have been going through a bad time over the past few years and reckon that we have the knowledge to get them out of it. Not sure how we would do that either. All a bit strange. I just had the feeling through the whole meeting, that there was a hidden agenda which I wasn’t seeing, or even privy to. I hardly said anything, just listened to what was really a monologue. The only sensible thing to come out of it was a reminder about the party this evening. Perhaps things will become a clearer over the week. What about you, how was your day? Like the hair by the way, looks good.’
‘It should do, the amount of money it cost me. I just had a stroll. Went to the Gate and then down the Unter den Linden to the Soviet Union embassy and then came back for a coffee. I was just looking at the map to see where to go this afternoon. 
What would you like to do now? We could get the driver to take us somewhere, shops perhaps, or just relax until the reception this evening.’
‘I think I would prefer to stay. We can order afternoon tea a little later as we have missed lunch and then change. Then the fun starts.’ 
They arrived for the party a polite ten minutes late. The library, on the ground floor, had a reasonable collection of books, but it was more of a reading room than a library in the real sense. There were tables with rather ornate lamps and what looked like silver-plate ink stands, plenty of large leather armchairs and a couple of sofas. 
Herr Stammer walked across to greet them. ‘Ah Richard, welcome. May I present my wife Gerda.’ Richard shook hands with a rather dour looking lady who seemed to be a lot older than her husband. Very nice to meet you. This is my wife Cynthia’ 
Gerda nodded, but Franz bowed, took her hand and kissed it very formally. ‘It is a great pleasure to meet you. Let me introduce you to the others. I have told those who can to speak English as I understand your German is not too good.  Don’t worry we will not expect you to remember everybody.’
He took a couple of glasses of sparkling wine from the waiter handed them to his guests and led them both further into room.
‘Meine Damen und Herren. Möge ich Richard und Cynthia Childreth vorstellen. Dies wird das einzige Mal sein, dass ich heute Abend Deutsch spreche. Mit Respekt vor unseren Gästen werden wir auf Englisch konvergieren‘. He smiled 
Cynthia understood what was being said but allowed Franz to explain that he had introduced them, and that they would now all converse in English. 
‘Cynthia, may I present you to a couple of people who Richard met this morning, then the others can introduce themselves.’
At this point Cynthia decided that if she was there to make an impression, she really ought to use her title. It would sound very arrogant and pretentious but needs must.
‘Herr Stammer, may I point out that I am actually Lady Cynthia. I have my own title.’
‘My apologies Lady Cynthia. I was not aware of this.’ He acknowledged deferentially and led them across to a small group.
‘So,’ he said, ‘this is Willa and Andreas Muller, and Heidi and Christian Spranger. They will look after you while I play host for a while. Please excuse me.’
‘Good evening,’ they all voiced in unison and proceeded to chat about nothing in particular. 
Richard and Cynthia were moved around the room from group to group. The small talk was the usual, ‘Where do you live?’ ‘Have you been to Berlin before?’ Nothing at all contentious, except, thought Cynthia, that almost immediately they left one conversation everyone reverted to German…and they were being talked about. She was able to pick up snippets as she walked around. There were comments about her dress, the fact that having a title must mean that she is obviously wealthy, and a couple of suggestions that she should be invited for coffee. So, it came as no surprise when Heidi Spranger came over to her offering such an invitation.
‘Lady Cynthia, while your husband is at the bank, we were wondering whether you would care to join some of us for coffee tomorrow morning. We usually meet here in the hotel at about 11.00 if that would suit you.’
‘That’s very kind of you. I would be delighted.’ 
‘Good, it will be an opportunity to get to know you a little better and perhaps we can show you some of the sights and do a bit of shopping perhaps.’
Cynthia wondered whether this was their usual lifestyle…coffee, entertaining and shopping. It would all be a bit tedious for her. 
If Richard and Cynthia were expecting more from the evening, they were to be disappointed. The fun, as Cynthia had put it earlier, really hadn’t started. In truth it was just a get together to welcome them to Berlin. After about an hour, the party started to break up and couples started to leave. Cynthia and Richard did the same.
‘Thank you very much for inviting us Franz,’ said Richard.
‘A great pleasure. I will see you at the bank tomorrow’, and looking at Cynthia, ‘I understand from Gerda that Heidi has invited you to join the ladies for coffee.  I have it on good authority that the cakes are excellent.  Good night to you both.’
They placed their glasses on the tray and walked out. 
‘I don’t know about you, but I could use a proper drink,’ said Richard, ‘but first let’s sort out  a table for dinner. Those canapes were not very filling were they.’ 
Having reserved their table, they moved to the bar and ordered their drinks. A few from the party were there as well. They acknowledged their fellow guests as they moved through to a more secluded spot in the corner where they were able to have view of the whole room. 
Keeping her voice low, Cynthia said, ‘What did you make of that then?’
‘Bit of a non-event really. It was all very polite, but the atmosphere was unusually formal wasn’t it. It was as if they had been told to attend, yet it was all just chat about nothing. What about you, did you pick up anything on your language antennae?’ he smiled.
‘No, they were talking about us, but apart from a couple of critical comments about my dress sense, there was nothing of interest. I think the invitation to coffee is significant. Perhaps the wives will be more outgoing tomorrow when their husbands aren’t there. We shall see. Let’s go and eat.’

‘

























CHAPTER 11  
As Richard left to go to the Bank, Cynthia joined the ladies in the Japanese garden.
‘Ah, Lady Cynthia, so glad you could join us. I think you know everyone here. Please help yourself to coffee and a cake.’ She pointed out a silver pot in the centre of the table. We try to meet here every day so feel free to join us whenever you can, but before I forget we would like to invite you both to a more formal get together on Thursday evening here in the restaurant. I say formal, but that does not mean evening dress.’
‘Do you have any plans for today?’ asked one of the women.
‘Well, I did think of walking down to the Cathedral, after lunch. I understand it is well worth a visit.’
‘Absolutely, it is a wonderful building. It looks a lot older than it actually is.’ She looked at one of her companions for confirmation. 
’Only 28 years old to be precise,’ came a reply.
The occasion, although pleasant was not really what Cynthia wanted to do. Although she was carrying out instructions, there was little to hear and observe. It was very much a few well-heeled ladies meeting for a gossip and a cake. Nothing at all of interest. 
Apart from her visit to the architecturally impressive Cathedral, which was really a collegiate church because it was not the ‘seat’ of a bishop, the next couple of days fell into a natural routine. Richard was transported to the bank and Cynthia joined the ladies at the same time and in the same place.  In the evenings they discussed their non-eventful days and questioned why they had made the trip. It was not until the Thursday evening reception that things became more interesting.
Although it was not formal, it did give Cynthia the excuse to wear one of her new outfits. Now was the time to make an impression. Her new dress was in rust-coloured rayon-satin which gave it an impressive drape and sheen. Her sleeves were slashed to the elbow, and the back down low enough not to be too risqué, and she had an art-deco diamanté clasp on her belt. She carried a small clutch bag of the same colour. She certainly stood out from the crowd, and heads turned as she entered the room…mostly the men. Richard was in a dark, but nonetheless very smart suit. 
Gerda Stammer came across to greet her. ‘Lady Cynthia, you look stunning. You put the rest of us to shame.’
‘I’m not too overdressed am I,’ conscious that she was, ‘never quite sure what to wear at these events. I could go back and change into something a bit more casual if you want me to.’ Knowing that she wouldn’t.
‘No, you’re fine. Please help yourself to the canapes and cocktails.’ And saying that she took two glasses from a waiter and handed them to Cynthia and Richard. They peeled away and took the opportunity to socialise, although in passing she was aware of a few uncomplimentary remarks from some of the women…
‘Das ist ein wenig über der Spitze, denken Sie nicht‘. (That dress is a little bit over the top, don’t you think?)
‘Wer versucht sie zu beeindrucken?‘ (Who is she trying to impress?’)
Cynthia just smiled as if she didn’t understand. ‘Good’, she thought, ‘people were taking notice.’
As they walked around, she became very aware that the small talk was much different than the coffee mornings and the welcome party. She had to be very careful that she did not make it obvious that she understood the conversations, but it was interesting that when she approached groups the topics changed to more mundane ones. She overheard them discussing the unemployment figures, how hard it was to get the country out of the recession, what a shame it was that Hitler did not gain the Presidency in the March elections and the fact that Hindenberg now had another seven years in office, although the consensus was that he wouldn’t live that long. It became very obvious to her that this was a group of like-minded people, all very right wing in their political leanings.  There was a lot of support for Hitler, and some relief that the ban imposed by Chancellor Bruning on the activities of the SA (the paramilitary wing of the Nazi party) and the SS (Hitler’s bodyguard) had been overturned by Von Papen when he had taken over in June. Some of the guests were talking of a future war being the only way that Germany could gain her rightful place in Europe again. On a couple of occasions both Richard and Cynthia were asked direct questions about where they stood on the issues. Remembering their reason for being there, they adopted an ultra-conservative stance, expressing sympathy for the economic plight of their hosts, support for a more disciplined approach to deal with the undesirables in the country, and a wish that there was an equivalent movement in the UK. Gradually more people in the room were now prepared to air their views in English so they could include their guests in the debate. 

Cynthia found herself leaning on the fireplace listening to ever-increasing extremist diatribes and simply nodding in agreement.
After a while a slight commotion occurred outside in the reception area. Into the room strode a grey-suited man of average height sporting his trademark moustache, together with three others, none of whom Cynthia had seen in the British newspapers, with the exception of his bodyguard. Adolf Hitler had arrived at the personal invitation of Herr Stammer. Normally he would not patronise the hotel because Louis Adlon was solidly anti-Nazi, but tonight was an exception. 
Cynthia tapped Richard on the arm and whispered, ‘Very significant don’t you think. This confirms everything we suspected about this evening.’ He nodded. 
The room went very quiet as if the occupants were expecting a speech or something, but Hitler took a glass of water offered by Gerda and then proceeded to mingle, gesticulating as he went and absorbing the adulation and platitudes that were aimed at him. 
At this point Cynthia glanced in the mirror. ‘Oh my god,’ she exclaimed quietly. ‘Richard’, she murmured, ‘don’t make it obvious but take a look by door. I’ve just seen the Harringtons.’ He turned slowly towards the other end of the room. 
‘But didn’t Louise say they don’t travel because of his health.’
‘That’s right, so what are they doing here?’
‘Your guess is as good as mine, but how are we going to play this. Fortunately, the language situation is fine because you mentioned that at Denleigh, but if they see us and ask, I think we should shift the emphasis off you and onto me. After all, technically this is my business trip and you are accompanying me. Wow, take a look now.’
Cynthia looked at the reflection again and saw the Harringtons in deep conversation with Hitler, who was also taking a great interest in the other couple standing next to them.  
‘I don’t recognise the other people, do you? They weren’t at the weekend do, although they could be the absent Davies’ I suppose.’
Cynthia’s thoughts were interrupted by the arrival of a tall elegant man with swept back dark hair. He greeted them in German 
‘Guten Abend Lady Cynthia, Mr Childreth,‘ and then quietly in perfect English, ‘the Wing-Commander sends his regards.’
This was their contact.
‘Have you managed to see the garden yet? Perhaps you would allow me to show you. It’s this way,’ he said rather loudly.
They followed him outside and when far enough from the building he stopped and faced them.
‘I’m from next door, you don’t need to know my name but if anyone should come over call me Paul. You’ve noticed the Harringtons have you? In case you’re wondering the other couple are Sir John and Lady Davies, Megan. We have been aware of them for some time, but certainly did not expect to see them here.’ He changed the conversation to unrelated small talk as someone walked past, then took up the strand again. ‘Listening to various conversations this evening, and a couple of reports we have received regarding your coffee meetings.’ Cynthia looked surprised. ‘Don’t worry,’ he continued, ‘one of the waiters works for us. You are likely to be asked about your willingness to join a group of German sympathisers working in Britain. It is unlikely to be tonight, but it may come tomorrow from one of the other ladies in the group. Don’t say yes straight away, because that might seem too keen, but give them your answer after thinking about it for a few minutes. Then just wait and see what transpires. If this does happen tomorrow the point of you being here will have been achieved, although we are sure there is more to come from the bank.  Are you desperate to stay for the weekend as planned, and by all means do so if you would like, or would you like to fly back on Saturday? I’m sure Bill will want to explain the next stage as soon as possible. If nothing happens then we’ll stay with the original plan. Richard, at the bank tomorrow do you think you can get them to come to the point and explain why they are so keen to have a link with yours. I get the impression from one of our guys on the inside that, as yet, the discussions have had no focus and are just window dressing.’
‘Glad you said that, because I have been thinking exactly the same thing. I’ll try to pin them down.’ 
‘Good, now act naturally, we have not had this conversation, and frankly I would like to leave before Herr Hitler makes his way around the entire room. Good night to you both.’
Cynthia looked at Richard. ‘Shall we do the same, nobody will miss us because they are all intent on watching Hitler. I fancy and early night. What about you?’
‘Thought you’d never asked.’ he replied with a smirk.


CHAPTER 12
The next day started like any other, although this time Cynthia got up earlier and went for a walk through one of the arches of the Brandenberg Gate, dodging the traffic as she did so, and into the Tiergarten.  She ignored a line of ex-servicemen, some limbless, others disabled in other ways, and younger men who had suffered during the economic depression who were selling a selection of pamphlets, maps, or offering their services as guides to the unwary tourists entering the site. Since the financial collapse there were many Germans below the poverty line whose only recourse was to beg or busk on the streets. 
According to her guide map, the Tiergarten had been on the site since 1527 when it was established as a hunting area for the Elector of Brandenburg.  She strolled along the main drive  which had lots of well-tended paths leading off it, smelling the newly mown grass and the scent of the flowers in the beds lining the edges of the thoroughfare, and listening to the birds in the trees and the ducks on one of the many lakes. It was obviously very popular with some of the uniformed nannies from the Embassies and large houses, walking and talking together in small groups while pushing high prams and pushchairs.  
The park was huge, 520 acres, so there was no way she would be able to see everything, and certainly not the famous zoo, built in 1844, which was located on the far side. Neither did she have time to see the memorials to famous Germans such as Fontane, Lessing and Wagner.  However, she was able to see some of the animal statues and the one of Frederick William III depicting him in ordinary clothes, holding a floral wreath in one hand and the other resting on a pedestal which had a relief portrait of his wife Louise, Queen of Prussia. Cynthia could have spent the whole day exploring, and she really wanted to sit on one of the wooden slatted benches set back from the path, but she was conscious of the time and the need to get back to the hotel for coffee. So, somewhat reluctantly, she turned and traced her steps back through the gate and on towards the hotel. 
Having gone to her room to freshen up and change into something a little less casual, she entered the restaurant to be greeted effusively by her hosts. ‘This is a little over the top,’ she thought, ‘I must have made a good impression last night. Now they all want to be friends with me.’ She smiled back at the group and in deliberately awkward German said ‘Guten Morgen Damen.’ 
It was as if an invisible barrier had come down. Cynthia and Richard’s comments and opinions had obviously sent out the right message, she was now one of the group. There were more of them this time including, to her great surprise, Louise Harrington who sat at the second table to her right with a large bag beside her exposing a ball of grey wool and a couple if knitting needles. Neither of them spoke but there was a slight nod.
One of the party Monika Fischer, opened the conversation by saying, ‘Wasn’t it an honour to have Herr Hitler at the reception last night. I have seen him from a distance at one his rallies, but never that close. What did you think as an Englishwoman Lady Cynthia?’
‘Is this a test or a trap, take your time before responding.’ thought Cynthia. ‘Before I answer that,’ she said, ‘would someone kindly pass me a coffee? Thankyou.’
A cup and saucer were passed down the table while all eyes were focused on her. 
‘Well, I don’t know about the rest of you, but I was really surprised he came. I understand it is not usual for him to accept personal invitations to events like that.’
‘No indeed, he rarely socialises with people beyond his immediate circle so he must have a lot of respect for your husband Gerda.’
‘Yes, they often meet to discuss financial matters.’ She said, obviously inflating her husband’s and by association her own importance. ‘If he were to gain power, I am sure Franz would be in line for some important job.’
There were gestures of assent around the table.
‘What else did you feel Cynthia?’ The questioning was becoming more focused and intense. She took her time before answering.
‘It was obvious from the way that the people here last night, yourselves included,’ she smiled, ‘reacted to his presence that you were all pleased to see him. He has a certain magnetism and I can see why he is very popular in some circles. He seemed very self-assured. Do you mind me asking who his three colleagues were?’
‘They were his bodyguard Sepp Dietrich, the larger of the three, his Adjutant Julius Schaub who looks after all of Hitler’s security when travelling, and Albert Boorman. He works at the Chancellery and deals with all the organisations that want access to Hitler. By all accounts he is one of Hitler’s favourites, as is his brother Martin of course. Not sure he was here for any particular reason last night.’
‘Interesting, thank you. It is always useful to have some idea of the background of people like that who you don’t know. It helps to put faces to names.’
A new voice, Karen Becker, now shifted the conversation in impeccable English.
‘You are an intelligent woman Lady Cynthia, so it would not have gone unnoticed to you that as a group we are great supporters of Herr Hitler and what he is trying to do for Germany. He wants to restore the country to its former glory and take us away from the guilt of the last war and the financial implications that went with it. We seem to be perpetually beholden to the economic demands of our former enemies, including the United Kingdom, something I think your husband will be discussing at the bank this morning. We have not wanted to openly demonstrate our allegiance in these convivial sessions, until we had some idea of where your own political loyalties might lie. There are a number of people in England of your class in particular, who agree with us and, were there to be another war, although we sincerely hope that won’t ever happen, we would like to think that we might rely on them to perhaps act as a fifth column. In the meantime, they would act as propagandists, highlighting what we consider to be the advantages of National Socialism.’
‘So, this is what it’s all about,’ thought Cynthia. ‘It has all been building up to this….’
‘I think you already know Louise Harrington, but can I also introduce Lady Megan Davies.’
At this Lady Davies gave a token smile.
‘They are only two of our staunch supporters in England. We have gathered from your comments this week, that you are not too impressed with the politics and the general state of British society, and so, not to waste any more time, we would like to invite you to become a member of our rather elite group. What do you think? I realise that this will come as a surprise to you so please take time to talk to your husband if you wish. However, you will be aware of the need for confidentiality. By asking you to join us, we have rather exposed our political leanings so whatever your decision is we hope you will honour that and not say or do anything that will compromise out network.’
Cynthia made out to be taken aback by the suggestion and fabricated shock and surprise.
‘Ladies, I am honoured to be taken into your confidence, so rest assured that anything you have said here, will remain between us. However, before I make a final decision, I would like to speak with Richard first if I may, because this will involve us both, and I would need to know precisely what it is you would like me to do. But I am sure we would like to be part of whatever you are organising.’ 
One of the others, took over. ‘I am Lena Weber, one of the original members of this group so I am best placed to answer that question Lady Cynthia, but unfortunately my English is not good so my friends will translate for me.’ 
Cynthia resisted the temptation to say that German would be fine and leant forward on the table showing a positive intent in finding out more details. As it was of course, she could understand everything that was being said. As the situation was now more relaxed and the difficult question had been asked, she detected a distinct swing among the group. All were now speaking German, including Louise and Megan. 
So, while Lena explained Gerda translated. 
‘Your role will have two elements. As Karen said earlier, we would like you to tell your friends, associates and perhaps some of your politicians about the advantages of National Socialism and countering the rise of Communism across some of the countries in Europe, including yours, although I accept that it is not a major concern is your country. Second, there may be a need to send some of our colleagues across to the UK to attend meetings with groups of similar persuasion and also social events where they might have the opportunity to further our cause. We would simply ask that like Louise and Megan, you might host one or two and create opportunities for them to meet like-minded people. We would keep in contact with you and would just let you know in advance should the need arise. Of course, your assistance may not be needed for a while, if ever, but it would be good to know that we could rely on your hospitality. Does that help?’
‘Yes. However, a couple of points if I may. Would you contact me direct or through someone else, and would you at any point give me a list of the people you would wish me to invite to any gatherings?’
‘We would get in touch with you via our friends in the UK. I take it you have your own telephone in the house.’
‘Yes.’
‘In that case, that would be the best way to reach you. We can sort out possible passwords or other identifiable phrases or words at a later date if we need to. With regards the list, we would not want to make that generally available, so we would rely on your instinct to select suitable people to invite, and we will give you a few extras, shall we say, nearer the event.’ 
‘Thank you, I now have something I can discuss with Richard as he is bound to ask the same questions. Can I say that depending on what happens at the bank this morning, Richard and I may be flying home tomorrow if he is no longer required here. I’m sure you will appreciate the financial situation in the UK is also unstable, so his time might be better served in his own office. Nonetheless, rest assured that I will give you an answer this evening. Shall I meet a couple of you in the bar at 7.00?’
‘That sounds like an excellent idea,’ replied Gerda. ‘We will see you then.’ Then turning to the group she said, in English, ‘Well ladies, I think we have concluded today’s business so I suggest we go our separate ways,’ and then in German, ‘Ich denke, Sie werden zustimmen, dass wir eine ausgezeichnete Wahl getroffen haben. Ich bin überzeugt, dass Cynthia eine große Bereicherung für unsere Gruppe sein wird. Bis morgen um 11.00 Uhr. Monika und ich werden Cynthia später treffen. Guten Tag.’
Cynthia was able to understand it as ‘I think you will agree that we have made an excellent choice. I am convinced Cynthia will be a great addition to our group. Until tomorrow at 11.00. Monika and I will meet with Cynthia later. Good day.’
Many of the group approached Cynthia and welcomed her to the group and said that in case they didn’t see her tomorrow for coffee, it had been a great pleasure meeting her. Louise and Megan also came across. 
‘Cynthia, I’m sorry we were unable to get to Denleigh, I am Megan Davies. Good to meet you.’
‘Likewise,’ she replied at the same time shaking hands. 
‘We’ve both been involved in this for a while now, so anything you need to know please ask.’
‘One thing Louise, you made a big thing at Denleigh about not knowing Germany, or German, and not travelling because of Bob’s health. Why was that?’
Neither of us were sure about the views of the others, especially as Amy had invited us out of the blue. The Snowdens are in on this as well of course, but you probably gathered that from his outspoken views over the weekend. Bob and I were a little concerned that he might say something that would give us away. He can be very indiscrete when he has had a few drinks. We always need to watch him, but Marjorie keeps a close eye. She is actually more forceful in her views than he is. We’ll leave you now to do some more sightseeing or shopping, but if you don’t mind, we won’t join you as we have things to do and other people to see. We will probably join you and the others in the bar this evening.’
With that, they went back to their seats and proceeded to finish their coffees. ‘Must be cold,’ thought Cynthia, just to lighten the proceedings. 

While Cynthia was having her meeting, Richard was also being quizzed at the Bank.




























CHAPTER 13
Richard was determined to achieve something at this morning’s meeting. So far, he had spent hours listening to tales of woe about how Germany had been unfairly dealt with at the Treaty of Versailles and how the former allies had basically ganged up to make sure the country would never be strong enough ever to go to war again. 
‘How were we meant to pay 132 billion gold marks? Not only was the sum unreasonable, it was impossible to pay. We were not the only country to cause damage to civilian properties. I myself saw action at the front, as I am sure you did. We would have both seen the destruction caused by both sides.’
‘Yes, I agree with that point, but, with respect Herr Stammer, you didn’t pay did you. That was why the French occupied the Ruhr area in ’23 to force you into paying. I have to say that at the time it did seem odd for them to take over your industrial area which could have generated money for you, but some good did come out of it. Wasn’t the Dawes plan introduced in ‘24 allowing you different ways to pay?’
‘Yes, but we still couldn’t meet our commitments. It wasn’t until the Young plan in ‘28 that things changed, and not really for the better. All that happened was a slight reduction in the overall amount we owed and a schedule of payments which will mean we will not pay off the debt until 1988. On top of that our economy totally collapsed last year, so we are hoping for better things at Lausanne. Fortunately, because of President Hoover’s actions, we have not had to pay anything this past year which has helped a little so we are optimistic that will continue.’
‘About that Herr Stammer, I admire your confidence in us, but my bank and any other bank in Britain, is unlikely to have any impact whatsoever over the decision making at the meeting, those will be made at Ministerial level. Which brings me to an important question. Personally, I don’t think you asked me over here to meet you to discuss the Lausanne conference because from your own experience, you must know that we would have no influence, so tell me, what is the real reason?’
There was a pause before he answered.
‘First of all, you need to know that you and your wife were recommended to us by friends in the UK who met you recently. I understand that you spoke to one of them, Marjorie Snowden, at the party last night. As you have quite rightly determined, this visit was not entirely to do with banking, although one of the favours I have to ask is of a financial nature. 
It’s really quite simple. My wife and her coffee group are at this very moment offering your wife the chance to help us put Germany on the world stage again by, if you like, acting as an unofficial goodwill ambassador in the UK highlighting the benefits of National Socialism. I am sure she will discuss this with you when you get back to the hotel. So, I won’t go into it now beyond saying that we would like you to do the same. It is apparent from your comments and political stance over the past couple of days, that you would not be averse to helping our cause. The other favour is very practical. We will be sending various colleagues to the UK to attend meetings and functions, so in order to make life easier and not to keep having to go through the process of changing currency with all the attendant paper-work and bureaucracy that it entails, we would ask that your establishment allows us to open an account which our members can draw upon when in the country. We would ensure that it is continually topped up, so there would be no danger of it ever going overdrawn. It is really just a matter of convenience. What do you think?’
‘I will as you say discuss the first point with my wife later, with regards the second 
I’m sure that could be arranged, but in what name would the account be opened. If you were sending over a number of delegates, it would be difficult to provide all of them with access to an account, or even individual cheque books.’
‘That’s a good point, we couldn’t really have a credit account listed as The Reichsbank could we?’ he smiled.
‘Let me give it some thought when I get back. I would need to run this past the other Directors anyway, so I’ll look into it and send you a reply in the next week or so. I take it that this isn’t urgent.’ 
‘Certainly not, it’s merely a matter of having something in place should the need arise. If something untoward was to happen we would just close the account. Can I leave it with you then?’
‘Of course. Now, having vetted our political leanings over the past couple of days do you think our business here is concluded? It would be very useful if my wife and I could fly home tomorrow as I have a lot to do.’
‘I fully understand. I hope you don’t feel it has been a wasted journey. We have enjoyed entertaining you. I hope that our mutual interests will be of benefit to both of us. Any help you can give us, both as individuals and as a Director of the bank, will not go unnoticed and will be very much appreciated. I sincerely hope that we will meet again in the near future. Perhaps we might attend one of your soirees.’
‘I’m sure that can be arranged, and we would be delighted to host you both. Many thanks for your hospitality Franz. I will be in touch.’
Franz shook Richard’s hand vigorously, gave a slight bow and wished them both a safe journey home. ‘Auf Wiedersehen, haben eine sichere Heimreise. ’

Richard picked up his case, and with a cursory wave walked out of the bank into the waiting car.  ‘That was just surreal,’ he said.
‘Sorry sir, didn’t quite catch that.’
‘Not important, just talking to myself. As I am going home tomorrow now, could you drive me past some of the sights on the way back. I’m not sure what time the flight is but I’ll let you know.’
‘No need sir, your flight leaves at 14.30 so I will pick you up at 12.00 from the hotel. I will have your tickets with me. There will be a car waiting for you at Croydon to take you back home, so there will be no need for you to catch any trains.’
‘Impressive service.’
With that he proceeded to take Richard on a brief guided tour of the city.














CHAPTER 14 
Richard and Cynthia had much to talk about over dinner which as they had nothing else to do, they took early. They were both impressed by the standard of cuisine so took their time enjoying the food in front of them, salmon, followed by a rack of lamb. 
‘Was your day as interesting as mine?’ asked Cynthia over a glass of cold Riesling. 
‘Probably, after putting up with a tirade about how hard done by the Germans are, I pinned Franz down to the real reason we’re here. I gathered from what he said, that you were going through a similar interview with the ladies. That does sound a little bland doesn’t it. We ought to give them a name like those women who used to knit by the guillotine in the Paris Terror. I’ll remember their name in a minute.’
‘Yes, I did have a good stroll through the Tiergarten, thanks for asking.’
‘Sorry, I thought you wanted to talk about the meetings.’
‘Well, we already had a fair idea of why we were here, so it came as no surprise, but in their words, they would like me to be an unofficial good-will ambassador for National Socialism, just as Bill suspected, or indeed expected. What about you?’
‘Same thing really. Our meetings had nothing to do with banking, except Franz would like me to set up an account for visiting delegates to England to draw on. He wants me to arrange a credit facility with a cheque book. Like you, he also wants me to acclaim the virtues of what he sees as the next regime.’
‘I was asked if I would organise house parties for like-minded people and host some of these so-called delegates that you mentioned. Were you given any time scale?’
‘Les tricoteuse!’
‘Sorry?’
‘Les tricoteuse. The name of the French knitters. We’ll need to think of something similar, but I wouldn’t think that any of them knit, do you?  Anyway ‘die Stricker’ doesn’t have the same ring to it.’
‘Can we get back to today?’
‘Ah, no, there did not seem to be any urgency. Do you think we need to write down any pertinent points, or can we remember them when we meet Bill, incidentally, our transport has already been arranged? We fly out at 2.30 tomorrow afternoon and there will be car waiting for us when we arrive. I suppose we should contact Bill when we get home, or perhaps we can leave that until Monday.’
Cynthia suddenly jumped to her feet. ‘What’s the time?’
‘Just coming up for 7. Why?’
‘I almost forgot that I am meeting Gerda and a couple of the ladies in the bar to give them our answer. I presume that we are going through with this; no second thoughts.’
‘Our journey would have been a waste of time if we now said no. It’s what we were sent here for.  I’ll come with you to demonstrate a united front,’ he chuckled.
They were already there waiting for them.
‘I have taken the liberty of ordering a bottle of wine, if that is alright with you,’ said Gerda, ‘have you had time to think over our proposal?’
‘Yes, and we both agree that we would be honoured to assist you in any way we can.’
‘Excellent. Ah here is the wine, we will drink a toast.’
She filled the glasses and then raised hers towards them with a ‘Prost’.
‘Cheers,’ they replied in unison.
They chatted about nothing in particular for a while, until as one, the ladies said their goodbyes and left, all except Gerda who remained behind to say. ‘Welcome to the group. Be assured that you will be doing important work on our behalf. I look forward to meeting you both in the near future. Someone will be in touch. Have a pleasant trip.’ She then strolled off to catch up with the others. 

The journey home was much more comfortable than Monday’s. They had no bill to pay, because it had already been covered, so they had their bags collected from their room and carried to the car, tipped the porter, got in and were on their way. On reflection it had been a strange few days and, in all honesty, they had only seen a rather sanitised version of what was happening in the country. They had stayed in an expensive hotel, well beyond the means of most people and had not ventured very far from the privileged area it was in. In addition, they had only met an affluent group of people who were all focused on the same political agenda, so although they had agreed to support National Socialism and they had played the game with their hosts, they had not actually seen any of its influence. They both agreed that once back home they would have to do some detailed research on it, so they had enough background material to act out their roles. 
The return flight was less turbulent and apart from a few unsettling moments they even managed to drink their coffee without spilling it. The plane landed at Croydon on time and after all the bureaucratic procedures had been dealt with, they left via the main door to be hailed by the same driver as before standing alongside the black Daimler. They walked across the road, placed their luggage in the boot and opened the rear doors.
‘Good trip?’ said a voice from the front.
‘Hello, Bill. We didn’t expect you to be here, we were going to call you on Monday.’
‘All part of the service, dear boy. No seriously, I just wanted to have a quick word about your trip before we have a full de-brief on Monday. We will come to you this time, rather than you have to traipse up to London. How did it go?’
Both Cynthia and Richard gave him the bare facts about what had happened, and then the conversation became more general as they both watched the countryside going past the window. If truth be told, they were both glad to be home.  Playing out the charade had been more taxing than they had realised.  A couple of hours later they pulled up in front of their house, offered a drink to Bill, who politely declined…’Sorry, I need to get back, but I will see you on Monday. Would 11 be alright with you?’
‘That should be fine. In the meantime, we will write down some of the relevant details, so you have them to hand.’
‘Until Monday then.’ And with that Bill spoke to the driver who then turned the car, and drove back, presumably to London.














CHAPTER 15
Bill, Jane and Hannah arrived exactly on time on Monday morning, driven in the same black Daimler by the same driver.
Cynthia led them down the hallway past paintings of generations of old family members staring down at them from the walls. Richard had had to go into the office early, so it was left to her to explain precisely what had taken place the previous week.
‘Really sorry that Richard isn’t here, there was a bit of a flap in the office over the weekend and he had no other option but to go up to London. He does send his apologies and I’ll make sure he is aware of anything we say or decide here today. He did fill me in about his meetings at the bank, so I can explain that as well.’
‘No problem, these things happen, and life has to carry on.’ 
‘I’ll get Mary to bring in some drinks for us. She’s my secretary and coffee maker and can be trusted implicitly, so there is no need to worry about her being around when we’re discussing anything.’
She rose and went to adjacent room which served as an office. ‘Mary, may we have some coffee please and could you take one out to the driver?’
Bill resumed the conversation. ‘Cynthia, let me just say from the outset that we, and others, are extremely grateful to you both for helping us out in this way. I shouldn’t think it was easy last week acting a part that you were not used to and making statements that you didn’t agree with.  How did you find it?’
‘Well, to be honest I never realised how stressful it had been until we got into the car with you on Saturday and we could unwind. I think the most difficult thing was not giving away that I am fluent in German. A couple of times I came close, but nobody suspected. Actually, knowing the language didn’t really help because apart from picking up a few insults about my dress-sense, they were very guarded in their conversations, especially when we approached anybody. Wasn’t until we agreed to help that they became more relaxed.’
At this point Mary came in with a tray of coffee and biscuits and placed it on the table. ‘Ah thanks Mary. Before you go, may I introduce our guests. This is Bill, Hannah and Jane. We will both be seeing or hearing from them quite regularly over the next few months, so now you will at least be able to put a face to name should they ring.’
Mary shook hands with them in turn. ‘A pleasure to meet you, now if you will all excuse me, I need to get back to my work. Sorting out payments to local suppliers this morning. Working out the indecipherable writing on the invoices takes time.’ She smiled and left.
‘Going back to your German. We are not sure how the members of the group that we know of so far are contacted, or in what language, so I would say that your linguistic skills may be more useful later,’ said Hannah. Did you meet anyone you recognised?’
‘Apart from Adolf, which was a bit of a shock, the ones that surprised us most were the Harrington’s and the Davies, who of course we missed at Denleigh.  Louise was obviously well in with the German ladies, and she and Bob spent quite a time talking to Hitler. I did not really have a long conversation with Lady Davies, as there was little opportunity to do so, although I have to say she and Louise did seem to be a double act. Other than that, no other people were mentioned. However, there are obviously sympathisers here, because one of the things we have been asked to do is organise a house party or two for our own friends together with some guests suggested to us by the German ladies. We must think of something else to call them. Richard and I thought about ‘the Knitters’ because they reminded us of the women who sat knitting by the guillotine.’
‘That’s as good as any other…knitters it shall be,’ replied Hannah with a smile.
‘What was Richard asked to do?’ asked Jane.
‘He had a worse time of it than I did, poor dear, at least I managed to do some sight-seeing and had coffee. He seemed to spend all his time in an office getting nowhere. It wasn’t until Friday, when Richard took the initiative that they got to the point. Basically, they would like the bank to organise credit facilities for any of their so-called delegates who might be coming over here for meetings. I presume these will be the people I will be asked to invite for supper. Richard was going to discuss this with the other Directors this morning. So, can I ask where we go from here?’
Bill put his brief case on the table and took out a sheaf of papers. 
‘This is what we know so far. As we mentioned at Denleigh, we have been aware for some time that there’s a group of National Socialist sympathisers in the country drumming up support for similar political parties here, and also offering help to their counterparts in Germany, the ‘knitters’ as you put it. We know some of the individuals, like the Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies, and those of the effete groups shall we say who always appear in the press complaining about or supporting various right-wing causes because of their status in political or artistic  circles, but as yet we have little knowledge of those in the background, or those on the ground.’
‘Consider these to be the worker ants,’ said Jane. ‘They are not influential or a threat as individuals, but as a group or groups they could pose a threat. We are in the process of getting as much information we can about their intentions, and whether or not, if push came to shove, they really would have the courage to work for the other side. Having met the ladies, you are now in a better position to understand the fervour of these people.’  
Bill continued, ‘You will be aware of Mosleys’ interest in the far-right. The New Party, although popular when he set up in ’31, has increasingly veered towards fascist policies and was becoming more authoritarian and radical. In a way it was fortuitous that when the Prime Minister called the election later that year, they gained no seats and lost the ones they had held before. Even Mosley himself lost his wife’s previous seat in Stoke. Since then he has been touring Europe looking at other similar movements and seems to be very taken with the fascists in Italy. He actually shared a platform with Mussolini. He now seems more determined to unite all those in this country with fascist leanings. Hence his new British Union of Fascists which is attracting those who are anti-communist, highly nationalistic to the point of being authoritarian, and very protective of the British economy. We estimate that they now have about 50,000 members and the support of some of the press, notably the Mail and Mirror; this is not something we can ignore. What we don’t know is what they intend to do with this new-found popularity, hence our need to gather as much information as possible. Your involvement in this will be extremely useful and could be pivotal.’ 
‘So, what do you actually want us to do?’
Bill turned to Hannah. ‘Would you like to explain?’
‘We need to say now, that we do not know how long you will need to be involved, so we cannot give you any indication of time. It may be that the BUF will go the way of the New Party and fizzle out, but frankly we cannot see that happening, at least not in the near future. Hosting events, and housing delegates from fascist organisations in Europe will be a great help. Incidentally, you said that the ‘knitters’ may send you a list of people to invite. We will do the same and we will include some of our people who will be there to observe and listen, in the same way as you did last week. We may organise some sort of recognition signals should you need to know who they are. We know you have a phone, but how many extensions do you have?’
‘Three, one in the hall, one in Richard’s study and another in our bedroom.’
‘How secure are they, can you hear any conversation on all the extensions at the same time?’
‘Yes, if we both pick up the same time, we can hear each other.’
‘Just as I thought. Don’t change any of the arrangements because we might be able to get information from any phone contact, but what we are going to do is put in another external line which will be the direct contact between us. You will have a new number. I suggest you place the phone where any prying guests won’t come across it. Can I suggest that you move the one in your bedroom to Mary’s office, and replace it with the new one? We will try to get this organised in the next couple of days. If any of your neighbours should question it, the engineers are just fixing a problem on the existing line.’
‘As you can see, we are not overlooked, so that shouldn’t be a problem. Most people around here keep themselves to themselves.’
‘There is another reason for having a new direct line as there may be an attempt to tap into your existing phone. You should be aware of this happening, because you will hear a definite click when you pick up the receiver. Although on the surface you seem to be trusted, there may be some who over time may question your motives, or indeed your true allegiance. So, when it’s all fixed up, just remember that normal day-to-day contact will be on the existing phone, and communication with us on the new one. The only calls you receive on the new number will be from bona fide people within our office, and there will also be code word at the very beginning of every message unless you recognise our voice. We are the ones most likely to ring you. Is that OK?’
‘Perfectly clear. I presume all bank related issues for Richard will still come through on the present phone.
‘Yes. We will be working closely with the directors of the bank and anything urgent that Richard needs to be aware of pertaining to this, will come via us. Sorry about all the subterfuge, but we are just covering all eventualities.’
‘There is something else’, said Jane. ‘As you will soon be part of the anti-establishment group and working for us at the same time, we will no longer meet at our office. You may well find yourself being followed, again they will be checking out your status. So, if we have to meet, we will give you details of somewhere very public, like a tea shop or restaurant where it seems you are attending some social gathering.  It might not be one of us, but a trusted colleague. Should it be someone unknown to you they will use Wing-Commander in the greeting in some form.  It’s better that way, because meeting the same person every time may be a bit suspicious. If you do feel that you are being followed, then let us know. It would blow your cover if we reacted immediately so we would probably have someone follow the follower, as he or she, and remember it could be woman, might inadvertently lead us to someone else.’
‘That was a lot to take in, but do you have any immediate questions for us. 
‘No, I don’t think so, but I will probably remember something as soon as you’ve gone.’
‘Good, ring us on the new phone when it has been installed. We will send you all the necessary passwords and identification measures when we have sorted them out, certainly by the end of the week, but we are unlikely to need them. 
We are now entering the next phase, and we have no idea where it will lead to, if anywhere. Above all, act normal, have your parties, and be patient. We will keep you up to date with any developments at our end.’
He turned to the others, ‘Have we covered everything, if so, I think we should be getting back. Please update Richard, and if you are totally convinced of Mary’s reliability, I would suggest you give her some indication of what we intend doing so she does not give anything away inadvertently. It may also be useful for you to have her as back up. We will be in contact.’
With that, the three of them rose, shook hands with Cynthia and left. 
‘Now we just sit and wait,’ she thought.





CHAPTER 16
Richard returned late in the afternoon and over a cup of tea Cynthia explained the details of her conversation with Bill and the others. 
‘I suppose, then, I can use the new phone line for any related bank business. Incidentally, the Directors have agreed and arranged a bank account and cheque book in the name of T.G.Edwards. The Chief Cashier is going to let Stammer know officially tomorrow morning. I realise he wanted to choose the name, but we all thought it better we did because it gives us more control. I will mention this to Bill when we are next in contact. Incidentally, they had a good laugh when I told them that Stammer wanted us to support them at Lausanne.’

The following day a medium sized bronzy-green Albion van, with ladders attached to both sides, and ‘post office telephones’ stencilled on the doors, parked on the road outside the house. Two men in dark overalls got out, took off the ladders and one of them, with a large belt that went around his waist and through his legs which he could lean back on, draped the cable over his shoulder, and proceeded to climb the telegraph pole until he reached the permanent rungs on the side. He clipped his belt around the pole and continued to go higher until he was standing on the uppermost step.  He then leant back so the belt took his weight, freed up his hands and set about connecting the black landline to one of the insulators at the top. Within the hour, they had strung the wire from the pole through the trees by the road and attached it to the existing bracket on the side of the house. Only then did they knock on the door.
‘Good morning Madam. We have been asked to install a new telephone for you. All the wire is in place, so we just need to sort things out inside if we may. If you could let us know where you want the new appliance to go, we will get on with it and be out of your way as soon as possible.’
They were true to their word. Within half an hour of Mary showing them the way to the master bedroom, and a cup of tea later, they had fitted and tested the line and re-joined Cynthia and Mary in the library.
‘It’s ready to go now,’ he said to Cynthia. ‘I won’t explain how it works because you already have one, but we were asked to remove the plate on the front with the number on, just in case prying eyes see it, so you can have it to put somewhere safe. You’ll get to know the number pretty quickly anyway.’ He handed her a circular piece of paper. ‘I think that’s all. We’ve tidied up and removed the excess wire outside so you’ve no need to worry about anything. If, you don’t have any questions we’ll be off.’
‘Thanks very much for coming so quickly. We didn’t expect you until later in the week,’ she said, offering them a rather generous tip. 
‘Oh! Thank you, Madam. I hope you have a good day. Goodbye.’ They both picked up their tools and returned to their van.

Despite the initial rush and intensity to get things in place nothing happened for quite a while. The Lausanne Conference that Franz Stammer had pinned his hopes on finished in July with only moderate concessions. The delegates from the countries requiring financial credit, the UK, France, Belgium and Italy all agreed that the on-going economic crisis throughout the world made it almost impossible for Germany to continue to pay reparations, although they decided she would have to give 3 billion Reichsmarks in bonds, to the Bank of International settlements which had only been set up in 1930. In effect, the Lausanne Protocol, which was rejected by the US Congress and never officially ratified, put an end to any attempts to get reparations from Germany. 
Although Britain was going through a difficult time both politically and economically, which affected Richard’s bank and kept him in the office for considerable lengths of time, it was of little concern to daily life in the village which just went on as normal. The country had lost almost half of its overseas trade and output from the heavy industries went into serious decline. As a result, the unemployment figures had gone up to over three million with many others only working part time. In the hardest hit areas, which relied on the mining, iron and steel and shipbuilding, many families were struggling to cope and were having to rely on relief from local government in the form of dole money. However, there were tiny glimmers of hope. There was a rise in housebuilding especially around London and other cities, and surprisingly the car industry was prospering. Yet, the political situation was still unstable and there was a danger that more extremist views would be heard. 
Amid all of this there had been no contact from either side of the Channel apart from the information passed to Stammer about the account. Considering what was going on in Europe, it was all a bit of an anti-climax. The new phone remained silent so Cynthia and Richard both got on with their lives; the daily commute to the City for Richard, and the running of the house and the huge garden for Cynthia.  
Christmas came and went with the usual carol service, the school nativity play which Cynthia was honour-bound to attend as Chair of the School Board, the invitations to endure endless mulled wine and mince pies at various venues around the village, and ultimately Christmas dinner, expertly cooked by a chef hired for the occasion, shared with their immediate close family. On the 31st December the church bells rang in the New Year and having decided that they would spend it alone, Richard and Cynthia raised a glass of rather agreeable champagne and toasted each other.  
‘What do you think 1933 will bring?’ Richard asked. 
‘I’m not sure, let’s just wait and see. We’re living in interesting times so anything could happen. It will be good to sort out the country’s financial problems, and I am concerned about the social tensions, but we should leave that to the politicians and you the bankers to deal with. Anyhow, enough of being maudlin, it’s the New Year, so how do you fancy taking the bottle upstairs and continuing our celebrations in bed?’ she gave him a suggestive wink.  


























CHAPTER 17 
Although there was no official communication from her friends in Germany, Cynthia kept a close eye on how things were unfolding. In November 1932 the Nazi Party had lost 35 seats in the election but it still remained the Reichstag’s largest party. Cynthia had thought that there would have been some response to this from the Knitters, but none was forthcoming. Despite this set back, Hitler was gaining more support, especially from a group of important Industrialists who urged President Hinderburg to appoint him as Chancellor, which he reluctantly agreed to do. 
When the new cabinet was formed on 30th January 1933 Hitler was officially appointed Chancellor and two of his colleagues, Göring and Frick, were also given seats. For a short while Hitler led a coalition government formed by the NSDAP and the German National People’s Party. There were great celebrations across the country and torchlit parades in Berlin and Cynthia could imagine Gerda and some of the others joining in. After all, this was precisely what they had wanted, a strong man, who they obviously worshipped, now in charge. Cynthia gave some thought as to what stance the ‘knitters’ would now take, especially as, according to quotes from the German press reported in her Times, the conservative politicians felt that they could control both him as an individual and the Nazi party in general; not really what they would want. She also noted that according to the same sources ‘there was little fear of Hitler establishing an authoritarian regime along the lines of Mussolini, because, it would be impossible to create a dictatorship in a country which expounded the virtues of freedom of thought and speech.’  However, others were not so sure. According to the Times Berlin correspondent, the British Ambassador there commented that the Nazi’s had come to stay, and a senior spokesman to the Foreign Office was heard to remark that another European war was again possible.  
‘Here we go again,’ thought Cynthia
It took less than two months for Hitler to take control of the country completely and it was only then that she was contacted… by letter, which surprised her as she could not remember giving anyone in Germany her address. She thought any communication would come through the bank to Richard especially as this one was written by Gerda Stammer. Although an obvious and natural way of communicating, it did make her feel rather uneasy. 

The letter dated 30th March was basically praising the actions of Hitler in the Reichstag the previous week, when he had insisted on being granted emergency powers to enable him to govern without consent of Parliament or constrained by the constitution. It went on to say that the group and others now had everything they had wished for, a strong leader who would take the country forward.  Cynthia read another couple of pages basically saying the same things in different ways until she came to the real focus. 
‘…I am sure that you have followed all of this in your newspapers, so you will realise how important it is for us to raise the understanding of these significant events in the UK. So, we feel now is the time for you to act on our behalf. When you were here, we mentioned the possibility of you hosting parties, soirees and other events in your house, which I understand is suitably large…’
‘How did she know that?’ thought Cynthia, a little concerned.
‘…to some extent events here have overtaken us because things have happened so fast, so we are suggesting that you might like to activate the plan we discussed as soon as possible. At the time we did not want to identify those in England who are already supporting us until we were sure about how things would unfold. But we would now like to act swiftly to take advantage of any good press as it were. We have taken the liberty of providing a list of names and addresses below of those we think you might like to invite, alongside your own friends and other like-minded people of course. We have seen in our newspapers that one of your politicians is hinting at another war. In the unlikely event of this happening, your contacts could be very useful to us.  Rest assured that this letter comes with the approval of the highest authority, read into that what you will.  Perhaps you would be kind enough to let me know at the address above when any event Is scheduled to take place as it would be very useful for us to send one or two delegates from here to support you…’
‘Oh dear,’ she muttered. ‘I am going to be observed to make sure I stick to the rules. That could make life a little more difficult.’
The letter continued for another page, but there was little of substance in the last few paragraphs. Cynthia called through to Mary who came bringing coffee with her.
‘Just to bring you up to speed, you might like to read that while I ring Bill.’
She went to her bedroom and felt rather excited about using the new phone for the first time.  Bill’s secretary picked up on the third ring.
‘Imperial Aggregates. How may I help you?’ she enquired rather imperiously.
‘Can I speak to Wing Commander Laurie please?’
‘Of course, Madam, I will connect you.’
‘Good morning Cynthia, good to see that the private line is working. What can I do for you?’
‘Hi Bill, I have just had a letter from the chief knitter asking me to set up my parties. However, before we talk about that, I have some concerns. First of all, the letter came to our home address and at no time did I mention it while over there; the only one they had was Richard’s bank. Also, they are obviously aware that I have a large house and grounds. Again, I had said nothing about this.’
‘Interesting, it is a good job that we had this phone put in. They are obviously watching you so could easily have tapped into your usual line. Have you seen any strangers in the village recently? They are unlikely to give themselves away by acting suspiciously, but someone may have asked in the post-office about your whereabouts; perhaps you could ask around.’  
‘I’ve not seen anyone, but I’ll ask, discreetly of course, although thinking about it, Mary might be the best person to do this as she has friends in the village.’
‘If they are close enough to keep an eye on you, I think we need to give you some basic training on what we call tradecraft. I’ll send someone down. He will be disguised so nobody will suspect, but it will be easier than you coming here and being followed. I will arrange it today and get back to you.  Did they mention anything else?’
‘Yes, they sent a list of names of people who I should invite. I’ve not looked at it yet, but according to Gerda they have been known to her for some time. Also, I am to let her know when I arrange the first party, because she wants to send someone over, presumably to make sure I am carrying out my orders properly,’ she chuckled.
‘That list will be extremely useful. Can you make a copy? I will get my colleague to collect it when he comes to see you. Remember that we will also be sending some of our people to your events, so you won’t be alone. Anything else?’
‘No, I don’t think so at present.’
‘Good, one last thing. They should not have had time to do it yet, because they will be unaware of the new line, however, when you contact me next, let it ring twice, put the receiver down and as you do so listen for any click. If you do hear something, then use a phone box, preferably not the one in the village. If it is clear, then continue as normal. When I contact you in a few minutes, I will do the same from this end. Anyway, don’t worry. We will make sure that you are covered. Don’t forget the usual contact name. I’ll organise the training now and ring you back. Bye for now.’
Bill rang off and Cynthia tried to remember if she had seen any strangers in the area recently. It was a small village so they would have been easy to spot. She knew the postmistress well, so would ask her later, while Mary did the same with her friends.
The phone rang twice, stopped, then started again.
‘Me again,’ said Bill, ‘done the test and there was no click. A small van driven by my colleague will be with you tomorrow morning. His name is Don, and he will be delivering fish from a shop in Newbury, it will say so on the side. He will only need to be with you for about thirty minutes, so it should not arouse any suspicion but just in case anyone is watching he has also contacted a couple of pubs and your local shop saying that he will be in the area and will have fish to sell. Will you have time to copy the list and let him have it?’
‘No problem, I will get Mary onto it right away. Thanks for your help and reassurance. I’ll let you know about the first event as soon as we get a date in the diary. I’ll discuss it with Richard this evening.’
Although she had been asked to set up something as soon as possible, she really did not want to organise anything until she could spread out into the garden. The thought of having everyone in the house, where it would be difficult keep an eye on what they might be doing did not enthral her. 
She went back to the library to her now cold coffee to discuss Bill’s conversation with Mary and ask her to transcribe the list.
‘That’s not a problem, in fact to save you the trouble, I have letters to send today so I’ll go to the post office now and make some enquiries.’ She tapped the side of her nose. ‘Anything else you want me to get while I’m there? We have plenty of envelopes and stamps for the invitations when you send them? Are you going to write them yourself or have some printed? I would suggest printing them, but handwritten ones do have the personal touch. If you like, I could do them for you and you simply sign. Up to you. Not sure why I brought that up, because we are not going to use the ones on the stand in the shop, unless you fancy ones with balloons on, and anyway they may not even have any as few invitations are sent out these days.’ She smiled, got her hat, coat and basket from the hall stand and left for the village. 
While Mary was out, Cynthia looked at the list. The Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies were there and other names she recognised but some came as a complete surprise and she found herself commenting to herself ‘really?’ ‘I wouldn’t have thought…’ ‘Well there’s a surprise.’ Some of the addresses were local, but others lived some distance away, meaning that she would have to provide accommodation. ‘What a bind.’ she thought. ‘These are going to take more planning than I thought, especially if any of the ‘knitters’ come. We’ll need to work out numbers and I think we’ll need to hire staff. Perhaps Bill will have some ideas.  Almost lunchtime. I think a walk around the garden is needed to clear my head.’
When she returned Mary was in the kitchen.
‘Any news?’ asked Cynthia.
‘No, not really, although Gladys did say that there was a green car parked along the road for most of yesterday. But she could not see anyone in it, so may have just been walkers. I didn’t ask her to keep a look out, because she will anyway. Not a lot happens around here without Gladys knowing about it. Nothing more we can do now is there so what about lunch?’
‘Good idea. I’ll organise some dates with you and Richard later, and then we wait for tomorrow’s fish delivery. We might as well buy some if he really has some with him.’ She smiled and put the kettle on.





CHAPTER 18
Don arrived the following morning at ten in the Fishmonger’s van. He walked up to the back of the house to the tradesman’s entrance in a white overall, carrying a wicker basket which did indeed contain fish, and introduced himself.
‘Morning, I’m Don,’ he said, touching his cap, and looking at Mary invited her to take some fish. ‘It’s all genuine and paid for, so help yourself. No charge,’ he smiled and followed her into the kitchen. ‘Now we don’t have long because I am supposed to be just a travelling salesman, so let’s get on with it.’ Mary called Cynthia. 
Although he came across as being a bit brusque, he certainly knew what he was talking about. He spent the next half-an-hour explaining ‘back doubles’, using reflections in shop windows, travel arrangements and other strategies to both Cynthia and Mary.  ‘The best thing to do is be observant and don’t look for problems that aren’t there. You need to make sure that you act normal at all times and not give away the fact that you may have realised you are being followed. I understand the Wing-Commander has gone through the phone procedure, so that has been dealt with. It would also be useful if you kept an eye out for strangers around here asking questions, or parked cars you don’t recognise.’
‘That will be no problem,’ said Mary, ‘we’ve got Gladys… A lady in the village,’ she explained when Don raised his eyebrows.  ‘She will be our ears and eyes…all second nature to her so all taken care of. Before you go you need to take this.’ She handed him a large envelope.  ‘It’s a copy of the invites list. Bill said you would take it back.’
‘Excellent.  Now, don’t worry about anything. We have backups in place, and once we have identified them, we will have people watching the watchers. I doubt that those involved have any sinister intent, because from what I have been told you are too useful to them. Things will only get difficult if they realise you are working for us. Having said that I need to get going just in case.’ He offered them more fish, which they declined, shook hands with them both, picked up his basket and returned to the van. 
Cynthia watched as he drove out of the gate and turned right towards the pub and shop, followed discreetly, she noticed, by a small green car, which once it had realised his destination, returned and re-parked. ‘They’re not exactly being inconspicuous are they,’ she thought. Although knowing they were there for a second day did make her feel uncomfortable. 
The evening before she, Richard and Mary had decided on Saturday May 27th as the date for the first event. It was far enough ahead to give plenty of notice, the evenings would be getting longer and the temperature, although not hot, would be comfortable enough to go outside. If it rains, then so be it, and we will have to hold it indoors.  Now Don had gone, she returned to her bedroom, and after carrying out the usual procedures, rang Bill.
‘Morning Cynthia. How are things? Don put you right did he?’
‘We’re fine. He explained everything and gave us some fish at the same time. Thanks for that. We told him about a suspicious car parked outside yesterday which incidentally followed Don when he left, but when they saw he was only going to the pub they came back. Good idea to set up the other selling points to divert attention from us.’
‘Yes, don’t worry about the car. Now we’re aware of it we will take note of its intentions. Any chance you could get the car number for us. We can then trace it. The guys inside are really only foot soldiers, but it would be good to know who’s pulling their strings. I’ll have a word with Don when he gets here. He has to hand the van back first and then get the train from Newbury so it shouldn’t take him long. I hope he’s kept some fish for me.’
‘He might not have your kippers, but he does have the list you wanted. Look, the reason I’m contacting you is that we have decided on the 27th May for the first party. We will have to bring in caterers because we have no staff of our own, and besides it will take the pressure off and allow us to mingle and play host. Is that OK with you?’
‘I’ll put it in the diary now, and make sure that Hannah and Jane know. It would be useful if we are there, at least for this one, as we were at Denleigh with you. Don’t worry about sorting out the caterers, or any costs you incur, we will deal with all that. It will give us the opportunity to have some of our people acting as waiters. Surprising what they might pick up. Few people take notice of the staff at these events and let things slip. I’ll let you know about which caterers we’ll use as soon as possible, but we’ll make sure that there is a paper trail in your name, letters invoices etc, with your address on. We will get them sent direct to you with a copy to us. What I’ll also do is transfer funds into your account so you can also pay them direct. All adds to the charade in case anyone gets curious. Can you give me your bank details at some point?’
‘Will do. Is there anything else from your end? We are not sure how many people to invite on the 27th as there are quite a few, so we may make a random choice, unless you tell us otherwise once you’ve seen the list. I’ll give it a few days before I send them out handwritten, more personal according to Mary, and I also need to contact Gerda, but only about the date and her invitees. Does that sound alright with you?’
‘Yes, fine. I’ll be in touch once I’ve seen the list. Until this afternoon.’
‘Hang on, before you go, I’ll give you my account number at Richard’s bank.’ 
Bill rang back after lunch. 
‘Some interesting names on that list aren’t there. Some we know, but others are a surprise. This is looking bigger than we first thought but nothing we can’t handle. Stick to your first plan and take a random sample and then invite the others to another event. Just let me know who is coming to each so we can follow them up. We are not sure how long this will go on for. I don’t want us to be dictated to by the German knitters, if you excuse the pun, but they can’t expect you to do this for long. I would suggest you do two then see what they say. I think they may come back to you with something else. These get togethers may only be a way to test your commitment or perhaps they are genuinely seen as an attempt to get some new members. Whatever the reasons the irony is that they are going to be more useful for us in gaining intelligence, than for them attracting recruits. Personally, I will be very interested to see how they act when they attend the parties themselves. Anything else while I’m here?’
‘No thanks, Mary and I will start on the invitations tomorrow. Oh, one thing, do you think you could get the caterers to contact me, so I know what arrangements I need to make. I am hoping you are only expecting a buffet rather than a full dinner party. A relaxed evening’s event would be much easier to do and allow people to circulate, so perhaps you could tell them that.’
‘Don’t concern yourself, that is exactly what we had in mind. I’ll get them to call you by the end of the week.’
The following day Mary wrote the invitations to 30 people on the list, including some of the knitters, and Cynthia signed them. They were all in the post by late afternoon together with an additional letter sent to Gerda via her husband’s bank with the names of those invitees that were on her list.
On Wednesday, Cynthia got a call from the caterers and together they agreed a menu and accompanying wines for the guests, and an alternative one for the ‘below stairs’ group, the waiting staff and various drivers. This of course did not include wine. 
‘Great,’ said Cynthia to herself, ‘all we need to do now is sit back and wait.’























CHAPTER 19 
By May 15th as requested, all but two of the invited guests had said they would attend. These included Gerda Stammer and Lena Weber from the ‘knitters’ group, although their husbands were unable to come with them because of work commitments. It did occur to Cynthia that the power of this group lay with the wives, rather than their husbands. They seemed to be more fanatical, although it could simply be a case of Hitler hero worship. They would require accommodation but as it was an evening event, they were the only ones who did. Many of the others coming from a distance had made alternative arrangements. Once they had their flight details it was arranged that Richard would collect them from Croydon the afternoon before. 
The green car was still arriving every day to keep watch outside their house, but Cynthia was reassured by the fact that other unknowns in the guise of walkers and cyclists were also appearing in the village at odd times to, ‘watch the watchers’ as Bill had said, and there was always Gladys. 
Cynthia had been in regular contact with the catering team so everything would run smoothly. They arrived promptly on the morning of the 27th in an enclosed lorry containing more outdoor chairs and extra kitchen equipment. As Gerda and Lena were rather in the way, Richard offered to take them to Reading to visit Heelas, the biggest department store in Berkshire, where they could do some shopping and then perhaps see some of the sights. He suggested the ruins of the old Abbey and the formal Forbury Gardens. He dropped them off in Broad St outside the shop with the promise that he would pick them up from the same place at three. 
Fortunately, it was a fine day, which relieved some of the pressure as the grounds were extensive and guests would be able spread out, but still mingle. Cynthia had employed some extra jobbing gardeners during the week to help Pete, her usual one, so the lawns and flower beds looked immaculate so they would certainly be a useful topic of conversation. 
One advantage of Richard taking Gerda and Lena into Reading, was that she didn’t have to provide lunch, which meant she could just concentrate on the evening. She and Mary were basically fiddling about doing small tasks to keep them busy. Although she had no live-in staff, apart from Mary who was more of a friend, she did employ a gardener and a cleaner who came in every morning, so there was really nothing for them to do. They were the ones now getting under the caterers’ feet.  In a way it was a relief when Gerda and Lena returned with Richard and they were able to recount their sightseeing over tea and cake, because it gave her something to do. 
‘What a lovely town,’ said Lena, whose English was surprisingly much improved since their meetings in Berlin. 
‘She had the same strategy as I had,’ thought Cynthia. ‘She was hoping to catch us out when Richard and I were speaking together.’
‘We particularly like the formal gardens, so relaxing to walk through considering how close they are to the centre of town, and the lion statue is so life like. But can you explain the strange name. Is Forbury a person’s name, or is it a building?’
‘Neither really. Did you walk through to the Abbey ruins?’
‘We did, found it very atmospheric.’
‘Well, the word simply means borough in front. The Abbey was one of the largest in the country and the gardens are now on the site of its outer court, which when in use was a meeting place between the monks and the townspeople. For many years it was also the site of a market. The Abbey was destroyed in 1539 on the orders of Henry VIII. But that is a complicated story for some other time.’
‘And the lion?’ asked Gerda.
‘That’s a war memorial, and a rather impressive one, don’t you think? It commemorates soldiers of the local Berkshire regiment who were killed in Afghanistan in the 1880s. I don’t know the specific details, but there may be a book in our library if you want to look it up. Ask Richard when you see him next. There has always been a rumour that the sculptor, a member of a well-known local brewing family, killed himself when he realised he had got the legs in the wrong position, but that’s not true because they are fine and he only died a few years ago. Coincidentally, he has a specific link with the next village. He designed the war memorial on the main road where the road forks. You probably drove past it on your way to Reading this morning.’
‘Fascinating. You do live in a lovely area. How do you put it, picturesque and rustic?’
‘Rural would probably be a better word. Looks good now, but we can get cut off in winter when it snows and those villagers who have to rely on public transport find it difficult to go anywhere. But, as you say it has its compensations, and we have small local shops that cater for most of our needs. Perhaps you would like to have a walk around before the guests start arriving. It won’t take you long.’
‘That’s an excellent idea. We’ll go now while we are in these clothes, and then come back to bathe and change.’
At 6 o’clock three large cars drew up on the front drive and disgorged the waiting staff. Each took a small case from the boots and walked round the house to the back entrance. One of them, a large man of military bearing asked to speak to the ‘lady of the house’ and was taken by one of the catering team to the library. 
‘You asked to see me?’ said Cynthia very politely.
‘Yes Madam. I thought I would make myself known and inform you that we are all here on the Wing Commander’s orders to be your staff for this evening. The others are in the kitchen area changing. I have been asked to act as your butler and also as a master of ceremonies if you would like me to.’ He looked towards the door before adding quietly, ‘We are all military personnel, but have had a crash course. We should know what we are doing but please excuse any basic errors.’
‘You are very welcome, and any mistakes are forgiven in advance.’ she smiled, ‘I don’t need a master of ceremonies, but if you are my butler, what do I call you and what do you normally do when not waiting on tables?’
‘Edwin, madam and I act as sort of minder for Bill. We’ve known each other for a long time. He will be here soon, but we will ignore each other as always. We are also his, and your, observers.’
With the exception of course of Gerda and Lena, the guests started arriving at a politely late 7.40. Pete the gardener was given the unenviable task of getting the cars to park in the right place, certainly not on the lawns, then rather than go through the house, one of the staff guided the guests to a path, that went through a side gate hidden in a large Laurel hedge and into the back garden. Tables, as yet empty, had been set out inside the long glass conservatory running the length of the house which enclosed a very mature grape vine, and chairs had been discreetly placed in small groups around the lawn. All were greeted by Cynthia and Richard and the staff standing next to them were on hand to offer drinks. Some guests she recognised, the Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies’. Having only met his wife, up close Sir John was much smaller and unassertive than Cynthia had imagined when seeing him at a distance at the Adlon, especially as then he was embroiled in a very animated conversation with Hitler. It was obvious from their reactions, that both Gerda and Lena had met some of the guests before, perhaps these were the ones on their list.
Bill arrived at around 8, closely followed by Hannah and Jane who had made a point of travelling separately. Hannah, now in her alter-ego of Miss Gilchrist, was again dressed rather outlandishly and both she and Jane caused quite a stir as they collected their wine and walked onto the lawn arm in arm.  Cynthia smiled and thought to herself ‘What a great double act, if only the guests knew.’
‘Good evening Mr Newton. Very pleased to see you here. How have you been since Denleigh, well I trust.’
‘Kind of you to ask Lady Cynthia. I am very well thankyou. A very nice house you both have here. Had it long?’ 
‘I was born here and inherited it when my parents died, so it’s always been home.’
While talking, they strolled a little further from the house leaving Richard to play host. 
‘Everything OK?’ he asked. ‘You’ve met Edwin and the rest of the team. They seem to be doing an excellent job, although I think Edwin could have done with a larger costume. It does look rather tight.’ They both laughed which gave the impression that they were having a normal relaxed conversation. 
‘There are a couple more of my people here as guests. I won’t point them out.’ He looked over Cynthia’s shoulder. ‘Keep smiling and say anything, the Snowdens are coming over.’
‘Ah, our flying ace,’ said Snowden extending his hand. ‘How are you, old boy?’
‘Well, thank you Colonel. And you?’
‘Likewise. You remember Marjorie,’ reintroducing his wife.
‘Of course. Do you know many people here?’ replied Bill, fishing for information,’ apart from the Denleigh group of course.’
‘We recognise a few, including that frightful Miss Gilchrist. She does like to make an impression doesn’t she. Certainly, likes to be the centre of attention.’
‘Yes,’ said Bill, thinking that when the focus is on Hannah, nobody notices Jane, and she is the one playing the more significant role.
At that point there was a tapping of a small gong and Edwin’s powerful voice rang out over the proceedings. ‘Ladies and gentlemen, silence please, your host would like to say a few words.’
Richard addressed the crowd. ‘Good evening everybody. Cynthia and I would just like to welcome you to this get together. We are all like-minded people here this evening, so please feel free to converse without constraint,’ he smiled, ‘nobody is taking notes, and I can assure you that there are no journalists here ready to pounce and report on what you might say. I would like to introduce you to two important guests, Gerda Stammer and Lena Weber who Cynthia and I had the pleasure of meeting when we visited Berlin recently.’ He pointed them out in the group. ‘I am sure they will have some interesting things to say about the present situation in their country, now that Hitler has taken over. On a more important issue, I understand that food is now available in the conservatory so please feel free to help yourself.’
He looked across at Cynthia who gave him an appreciative nod. 
For the rest of the evening, Gerda and Lena took centre stage. There was always a small group of people surrounding them asking about Germany and how had things changed, and how it would be beneficial for Britain to have the same dynamic leadership. As expected, it was the Colonel’s voice which could be heard above the rest. All this was being overheard by the waiters and waitresses, who were completely ignored by the guests as they went around serving the drinks and offering canapes to those who had not made it to the conservatory. 
When nobody was about Bill called over to Edwin as he was passing. ‘Are you able to breathe in that suit?’ he asked jovially.
‘It is a bit restricting Sir, but needs must for the service on one’s country,’ he retorted with a smile.
‘Seriously, stay acting as the butler in case of wandering eyes, anything so far?’
‘Not as yet, only the conversations we were expecting. I’ve had no reports from the others, beyond the fact that they cannot understand why some of the guests are so arrogant and self-indulgent. A class thing I suppose,’ he winked and offering Bill another drink in role, walked away to another group. 
Cynthia found Richard and extricated him from a very deep philosophical conversation which she could see he was not enjoying.
‘Excuse me, would you mind if I borrowed my husband for a minute?’ She put her arm through his and ambled across the lawn. ‘What do you think?’
‘As a party it’s going well, but many of them would not be my first choice of guests. Some of them are very tiresome but I am sure Gerda and Lena will be able to attract some recruits this evening. I’ve noticed a few business cards being exchanged. Incidentally, Gerda is over there by the lake, but I haven’t seen Lena for a while. Have you?’
‘No, now you come to mention it I haven’t. I wonder where she is, I suppose we need to wander around and mingle. Come on.’
As they were about to move off, Mary arrived and with a relaxed voice said very quietly ‘I thought you should know that I have just seen Lena Weber and Marjorie Snowden coming out of the office. Not sure what they were doing in there. They didn’t see me. They would certainly not have found anything untoward or incriminating, but it does make you wonder what they were looking for.’
‘How annoying. They’ve taken their chance while we are all out here. It’s the first time since they arrived that they’ve had the opportunity to snoop. Can you have a quiet word with Bill please? If I talk to him again, people may suspect. In the meantime, I will tell Hannah and Jane. I haven’t spoken to them all evening so I have a good excuse.’
While Mary went off to tell Bill, Cynthia found Hannah listening a small group praising the qualities of Mosley. ‘Can I have a quiet word please?’ and taking her to one side, ‘Mary has seen Lena and Marjorie coming out of my office.’
Hannah replied in role ‘Indeed,’ she said rather haughtily for the benefit of the others, ‘I would love to walk around the garden,’ she turned to the others, ‘Please excuse me. I have a great interest in gardening and I really must discuss some of the planting with Lady Cynthia before it gets too dark.’ 
As she took two glasses of wine from one of the waiters, she said to him, ‘Can you ask Edwin not to make it obvious, but can he bring a tray of something and find us in the garden? We’ll be over there, not too far away.’
‘Yes Madam, I’ll get some food to you immediately.’ 
A few minutes later, as Cynthia and Hannah were genuinely talking about the plants, Edwin arrived with a salver of food and some wine. ‘Your food Madam, and I took the liberty of bringing an additional bottle of wine’.
‘Thank you.’ Hannah said in a loud voice, then more quietly. ‘We don’t have long because ‘you need to stay in role’. She then explained what had happened. ‘I think we may need to keep an eye on Gerda. They are certainly acting as a pair and as Lena found nothing in the office, she may search elsewhere. Can you get the team to keep a close eye on them in particular and also Louise Harrington and Megan Davies, they may be in on this as well? Richard or Bill will point them out to you. Don’t do anything just watch.’
‘Thankyou Madam. Will that be all?’
‘Yes,’ replied Cynthia. ‘Edwin, thank you very much for your help this evening. We have to endure another one of these, but I hope we can call upon the services of your team again.’
‘It would be a great pleasure Madam. May I suggest we begin tidying up, time is getting on, and it might prompt some of the guests to depart.’
‘Excellent idea, to be honest I have had enough of being diplomatic.’ Hannah nodded in agreement. ‘I think we will start the ball rolling. I’ll collect Jane and we will take our leave. We will need a debrief at some point, but I will leave that to Bill to arrange. He’s coming across now with Richard. See you soon,’ and she wandered off to find Jane.
Bill made a point of making a formal farewell for the sake of those watching.
‘Lady Cynthia, Richard, many thanks for inviting me this evening. Most enjoyable. I will write to you soon to express my thanks and hopefully we will meet again soon.’ He gave a slight nod and walked away.
Many of the others took the hint of their departures, and the clearing of plates and glasses, and decided to go as well. All came to express their thanks for the hospitality, made their way to the cars and drove off through the dark country lanes. There were a few who, in truth, should not have been driving, but that was not her problem thought Cynthia. By 11.30 only the hard core remained.  The Davies had gone, but the Harringtons and Snowdens remained with Gera and Lena.
‘May I commend you on an excellent evening Lady Cynthia,’ said the Colonel. The way he pronounced Cynthia gave away the fact that he had drunk too much. ‘I understand from Gerda that you are going to hold another one, so hopefully we might be invited again. We met some very interesting people who I will make a point of keeping in contact with. Marjorie, are you ready to go home? It is getting late and we have a distance to travel.’
‘That’s not true, thought Cynthia, because I know where you live.’ 
Marjorie turned to Gerda and Lena. ‘It was a great pleasure to see you again and I am pleased that you can stay a little longer. We will see you tomorrow.’
Cynthia experienced a moment of panic. It had already been arranged that Richard would drive them back to Croydon after breakfast, surely they didn’t have to entertain them for another day!’
Gerda looked at Richard, ‘Peter and Marjorie have invited us to stay with them for a couple of extra days so we can spend some time in London shopping with Marjorie and Louise. We’ll reorganise our flight home, so many thanks for the offer Richard, but we won’t need a lift to the airport tomorrow. Peter will pick us up at 10.00, we hope you don’t mind.’
Cynthia breathed a sigh of relief. 
‘Not at all.’ said Richard ‘we will see you at breakfast.’
Edwin came towards them. ‘Excuse me Madam. We have boxed up all the remaining food and wine and left it in the kitchen and we will take the washing up with us. If it is convenient for you, we will return for the chairs tomorrow afternoon.’
‘That will fine. Can you come to the office with me, I have something for your team? She turned to the others. ‘Please excuse me a moment.’
When inside Cynthia took some cash from a small locked box on one of the bookshelves and handed it to Edwin. ‘I know you’re being paid for this evening, but this is a little thankyou from us. I will leave it to you to divide up.’ 
‘That is very kind of you. I will make sure it is shared fairly.’
She looked out of the window to make sure that the others were still on the lawn. ‘Another thing, can you tell Bill that Gerda and Lena are not leaving tomorrow, they are going to stay a few extra days with the Snowdens. I realise it’s Sunday, but I will be here in the afternoon if he wants to call me.’
‘I have a better idea,’ said Edwin, ‘if he is free why don’t I bring him down in the lorry when I come back to collect the chairs.’
‘Even better’, she said.
While Cynthia returned to the others Edwin gathered up his team and left. As she got to the group they too were on the point of departing. 
‘We are off to bed’, said Lena. ‘See you at breakfast.’
“Thank you again. Until the next time.’
‘Yes, until the next time.’ Cynthia replied with a forced smile.







CHAPTER 20
When Gerda and Lena sat down for breakfast the following day, Richard was just leaving.
‘My apologies ladies. As I no longer have to give you lift, I can have my regular golf game with my friends this morning, so must dash. I’m being picked up in a couple of minutes. It was good to see you again. Until the next time.’ He rose, shook hands with them both, gave Cynthia a kiss on the cheek, and went to collect his clubs. 
Cynthia asked them how they thought the evening had gone. 
‘Extremely well,’ Lena replied, ‘better than we expected, there were many people who were very keen on learning more and some asked how they can help. Of course, there were one or two who were sceptical, but we would expect that. We have gone through such difficult times over the past few years, something that you have been shielded from here.’ 
Cynthia wanted to say, ‘If I were you I wouldn’t make that statement to the miners, or the Jarrow marchers and all the others who suffered in the depression,’ but instead was very diplomatic and said, ‘We’ve had our fair share you know.’
‘Some of your guests found our passion for change difficult to understand, but now we have Hitler in place we have a chance of succeeding. You may have read that he has already banned the Communist party and the Trade Unions, and strikes are no longer allowed, so that’s a start.’
Cynthia wanted to bring her down from her soap box. ‘So, where do we go from here?’
‘As we already know them, we will discuss the next steps with the Harringtons and Snowdens then get back to you, but in the meantime, if you are still willing, we would like you to organise another similar event with a different group of people. You have the right environment, a large house, extensive grounds, and you are reasonably isolated. I thought the guests responded well last night to Richard’s suggestion that they could talk freely. They certainly relaxed knowing that they could speak their minds without fear of censure. One request, please don’t invite that frightful woman with the monocle who dresses like a man. I cannot take her seriously, and although she may be an adherent, I am not sure her image will do our cause any good.’
‘I’m sure that can be arranged,’ said Cynthia knowing that Hannah would still be there, but in a different disguise. ‘Will you both be coming again?’
‘We would like to if possible,’ replied Gerda, I realise that you were unable to invite all the people on our list, but as it happened it worked out well, thirty or so seems to be the right number, so perhaps they could come next time. We will leave you to set a date and make the arrangements. I have to say it has been a most pleasant and useful weekend. Now, if you will excuse us, we need to pack our things and be ready for Peter.’
They both rose and left Cynthia to finish her breakfast.
Peter arrived promptly on the stroke of ten. Conveyed his thanks to Cynthia for the previous evening, escorted the ladies to the car and drove away.
Cynthia went into the library to join Mary and slumped into the chair. ‘Thank goodness that’s over.’
‘The only problem is that we will have to go through it all again. I still don’t understand why Lena and the other woman…’
‘Marjorie,’ interrupted Cynthia.
‘Marjorie, why they were in the office. What were they looking for?’
‘I have no idea, but it is a good thing that everything we did for the party was above board. There was nothing to suggest that anyone else was involved in any way. Bill’s coming this afternoon, so we’ll ask him.’ She looked at her watch. ‘I need to get some biscuits, so I’ll go over to the shop before Gladys closes and goes off to church. I’m not going this morning, too tired.’
The little bell over the top of the door jingled as Cynthia entered the shop. 
‘Morning Gladys, can I have a pound of decent biscuits please.’
Gladys took a few scoopfuls from a series of glass topped tins aligned in front of the counter and placed them in a paper bag. 
‘Did you have a good party last night?’ she asked, ‘we saw all the people arriving. A couple of your guests came in here yesterday afternoon asking about you. They had funny accents, so not sure where they came from.’
‘They live in Berlin, in Germany. What did they want to know?’
‘Odd really. Had I known you for long? Since you were a baby I said. What did you do? I presumed they meant for a job, so I put them right and told them ladies like you don’t work as such but do a lot for the village and charities and the like. Then strangest of all, had I seen more visitors than usual going to your house over the past few weeks. No, I said, you weren’t a one for entertaining a lot, and you’ve always liked your privacy since you were a child. There was something else,’ she paused to remember. ‘Yes, they wanted to know if you were a lady, why wasn’t Richard a Lord. I told them it was yours by right. They were very nosey. They seemed to be checking up on you.  I hope what I said was OK?’
‘Very OK Gladys, many thanks.’
‘Have you noticed our friends are not here this morning?’ Gladys nodded towards the window, ‘perhaps they have Sunday off.’
She was right, the car wasn’t there. ‘I wonder why,’ thought Cynthia, she’d got quite used to it.
‘Thanks for the biscuits. Keep looking out for strangers,’ she said with a smile.
Edwin returned in the afternoon to collect up the chairs and kitchen paraphernalia. After which he joined Bill, who had travelled with him disguised in a khaki coloured dust coat, Cynthia and Mary in the conservatory. She told them about her conversation with Gladys.
‘That’s peculiar. I wonder why they want to know so much about you. I can understand idle interest, but why question your social and domestic life. If anyone else comes around asking questions, I would have thought the shop or the pub will be the obvious places they’d try, so I think you should prime Gladys to give them misleading answers. You can always tell her you are protecting your privacy.’
Incidentally, on the way here I had a thought about the intrusion in your office last night.  We may have been looking at it from the wrong end, bear with me a second.’ He left and went into the office.
He returned almost immediately, ‘Can you come with me, but when we go in, don’t say a word. I’ll explain after.’ As they entered the room Bill mimed to Cynthia to pick up the phone.
She did and heard a distinct click on the line.
He beckoned them to follow him to the conservatory. 
‘They weren’t taking anything out, they were putting something in, they’ve put a bug in the phone so someone, somewhere can listen to your conversations. Good job we took the precaution of the other line.’
‘Why the pantomime?’ ask Mary.
‘I can’t be sure that they’ve not placed others in the room. They could easily be put behind the books. I’m certain they wouldn’t have had the time to do it, but I’m just being careful. No need to worry. Now we know it’s there we can make use of it ourselves. All you need to do is remember to make official calls from upstairs, I’ll check that one in a minute if I may, actually, Edwin could you go and have a look, and always use the office one for the run of the mill stuff. Same with conversations. Come into here if you want to talk about the operation not in the office.’
Edwin returned. ‘The other one’s alright to use.’
‘Good, all of this does raise an interesting question. I can see why they are wanting information on you because they need to know your commitment and that you’re not working for someone else, like us. But all of this must be arranged from here, so who is behind it. I’ll need to do some digging.’
‘By the way,’ said Cynthia, ‘did you notice that the car has gone?’
‘No, but there could be a simple explanation for that, first, you may have passed some sort of test last night and they were happy with what you did; second, there is no need for the car to be on site anymore, now that the phone has been tapped. I presume they asked you to arrange another party.’
‘Yes, they want to meet the other people who were unable to come.’
‘Good, from our point of view last night was very successful. We already knew some of them, but we were able to add more to our list. Edwin, did the team pick up anything useful?’
‘Not really, most of the chat was political, but from what we overheard, nothing seemed particularly controversial. However, over the evening we did get a fair idea of who was directing the conversations.  For instance, did you notice that the Harringtons, Snowdens and Davies’ did not remain as pairs, but attached themselves to various groups. They are obviously the leading lights in all of this, and I think it’s significant that our German friends are staying on. I wouldn’t mind betting that all eight of them will be meeting up somewhere.
Bill, if you don’t mind me making a personal observation, from my own experience in the service, the Colonel is not as opinionated or overbearing as he seems. There is no doubt that he is involved in the cause and is highly motivated, but I think some of his statements are made purely to get a reaction. He seems to be assessing people by their responses. 
Incidentally, be aware next time that he is not as drunk as he makes out to be, he was seen pouring some of his wine into nearby pot plants. He is not the buffoon he wants us to believe he is, so I think we should monitor him closely.’
‘Thanks Edwin, that’s very useful. Do you think we should put someone on Snowden or give him space?’
‘Whoever follows him would have to be very good, because I think he could spot a tail a mile off. We know the circles he mixes in and his political agenda, so I would give him free rein. We can always pick him up if we need to.’
‘OK, I’ll go along with that. So, Cynthia, when shall we have the next party. You obviously enjoyed last night’s so much we really must do it again,’ he remarked in a satirical voice. 
Both Cynthia and Mary frowned. ‘Loved every minute of it didn’t we Mary. I’m in no hurry for the next one, but it is really up to you. We can either do it in the summer or wait until next Spring. Many on the list may be going away in July, August and if we leave it any later the nights will be drawing in, and frankly I would prefer to have it outside if possible.’
‘That would suit us. If the knitters complain, come up with some excuse. You are controlling this now, not them. Sort out a date and we’ll work around it, meanwhile we’ll do some background checks on those on our new list. By the way, did you spot our agents?’
‘No, did they come on their own, or as a pair?’
‘Not saying but they obviously did their job well,’ he said, smiling at Edwin.
‘One thing before I forget. I have been asked not to invite ‘that frightful Miss Gilchrist’ quote. They don’t like her, or what she might represent. Hannah may have to give some thought to a new persona. That should be fun. I’ll sort out the date and let you and Gerda know.’
‘We’ll be in touch,’ said Bill as he rose to leave, ‘don’t forget about the phones. Come on Edwin, back to the city, although I much prefer it out here.’
 











CHAPTER 21
Richard and Cynthia both agreed that they would stick to their plan of not offering to host another party until early summer the following year. Her argument of short nights getting chillier was sound and there were various reasons they could not have it in early Spring, and for the first time in a while, they had been invited to Royal Ascot during the third week in June. As a result, they decided on July 7th. 

However, by the time the next party came around, much had changed both in Britain, and in Europe which would have a bearing not only on the guest list, but also the discussions.
Significantly, in August 1933, after some of his New Party public meetings had been disrupted, Oswald Mosley had established the 300 strong Fascist Defence Force, a paramilitary section of his British Union of Fascists. They wore distinctive black shirts modelled on Mosley’s fencing jacket and were based in Black House on the Kings Road, Chelsea. Their insignia was a flash of lightning in a circle, representing ‘action within unity’. When Mosley was giving speeches, he was often flanked by members of what he called the ‘I Squad’ a small elite group which acted as his bodyguard. They had the same uniform but with leather breeches and high boots. 
Although Cynthia had not seen them personally, she had heard reports from her friends about the intimidating way they would march through various cities and were often involved with violent confrontations and riots, especially with Communist and Jewish groups in London. It was all very much modelled on the Italian Fascists, however, unlike their Italian counterparts, the FDF and the British Union of Fascists were not as popular and after a large rally at Olympia on June 7th 1934 when his bodyguards over-zealous violence created a great deal of bad publicity the membership declined, although Mosley himself remained leader of the  depleted party.  Both Richard and Cynthia wondered how these events would have affected the Denleigh Group. Were they still supporting what looked increasingly like a lost cause? They would soon find out. What Mosley didn’t realise was that in early 1934 Bill and his colleagues, together with Special Branch, had planted agents in the organisation and had been monitoring his communications.  They were worried that his oratory skills might attract enough financial support for it to become a powerful political force. The information they were able to gather meant that Bill had more knowledge of some of the people on her July guest list.
While the BUF was in decline in the UK the opposite was happening in Germany.
In October 1933, Hitler had withdrawn Germany from the League of Nations and over the next few months illegally trebled the size of the German army and ignored the weapons and materiel restrictions imposed by the Treaty of Versailles.  He was also set on consolidating his power and settling old scores, so over three days in the week just before Cynthia’s do, Hitler disposed of all his rivals within his own party, including Ernst Rohm the head of the SA. Although officially called Operation Hummingbird, it became known as the Night of the Long Knives.  Hitler now ruled supreme, which must have delighted Gerda and the rest of the knitters. In effect he now had no opposition and the full support of the military. 

Cynthia and Richard had a rather normal winter. Richard travelled up to London each day, and Cynthia spent more time planning areas of the garden that needed to be developed in the coming seasons and used the opportunity to prune some of the smaller trees. They were cut off completely from civilisation in January because of heavy snow, but it was a common occurrence in winter, and they were used to it. As there were no routes out of the village without going down a steep hill, traveling was hazardous on the icy roads. They kept in contact with Bill and received the odd letter from Gerda, via the bank. Now Gerda knew where they lived, Cynthia was surprised she didn’t contact her direct as she had before.
The pressure began to mount in early May when Bill rang early one Sunday morning. 
‘Morning Cynthia, sorry to call at the weekend, but I need to talk to you urgently before you start planning the party. I don’t want to put you out, but would it be possible for you to come to London? It’s to do with something that I would not want to discuss on the phone, even a secure one. Are you both free on Tuesday? I presume Richard will be at work, so perhaps he could excuse himself for an hour and travel across town to our new offices at Thames House on Millbank. Can we say 11 am?  But for reasons that will become clear I would like you to meet Hannah separately at the Ritz at the same time. The discussion will be the same, I just don’t want you coming together.’
‘Let me have a word with Richard, he’s just about to go to golf so I need to catch him. I’ll ring you back.’
Richard was in the process of putting his clubs in the car, when she caught up with him and relayed Bill’s conversation.
‘That’s a little odd, don’t you think? Why all the cloak and dagger stuff? Tell him I’ll be there at 11.’ 
Cynthia returned to her bedroom and rang Bill.
‘That will be fine.  Richard will come from work and I’ll come up by train.’
‘Please take extra care. I won’t tell you how I know, but there seems to be a lot of increased interest in you and your parties. They don’t seem to have picked up on Richard, which is why I am happy for him to come here, but all the attention seems to be focused on you. When you come up on Tuesday you may be followed. Don’t worry about it, because we will be watching you as well. Rather than take a taxi from Paddington, could you take the underground, it will give our people more chance to spot them. Hannah will explain when you see her.’
‘Sounds fun. I know Green Park tube is probably closer, but I’ll take the Bakerloo Line and walk from Piccadilly station, saves me changing trains. Although, if you wanted to pick up any followers, I could easily walk across Hyde Park to the Wellington Arch and up Piccadilly. Don’t mind either way.’
‘Actually, the latter sounds good. If you could leave the station and turn right on Sussex Gardens to Lancaster Gate, we’ll have others follow you from there. As usual, don’t look for them, you won’t see them. Incidentally, don’t show any surprise when you see Hannah, I’m not saying any more,’ he laughed.
Cynthia travelled up on the Tuesday and as arranged walked across Hyde Park from the Italian Gardens and up Piccadilly to the Ritz. Built in 1906 by Cesar Ritz, it was a venue she had not visited for some years when it was more like a club than a hotel and graced by film stars and celebrities. She entered the Palm Court, a magnificent cream coloured room decorated in the style of Louis XVI with lavish furnishings, gilded armchairs and large windows at either end. There was also a marble fountain displaying a gold-coloured nymph in a lair and known as La Source. A waited approached her and asked if she had a reservation.
‘I am meeting Miss Hannah Park.’ she said. 
‘Please follow me Madam.’
He led her across the room to a table for two where Hannah was already seated.  What a transformation, she was almost unrecognisable. Gone was the short dark hair to be replaced by long blonde ringlets which cascaded over her shoulders. She was dressed in a very elegant summer jacket and blouse and wore a large diamond pendant around her neck. She certainly looked the part, and although smart herself, Cynthia felt distinctly underdressed. 
‘Do you like it?’ asked Hannah. ‘I have to be honest it’s not the usual way I dress, but I could get used to it. It’s not just for show, it is serving a purpose. I did not want you to be seen with Miss Gilchrist, especially as you have been tailed. Don’t look, but you were followed in by a couple we both know; the Snowdens. They have a table for four so may be expecting others. It will be interesting to see if they make themselves known, but I think it is more likely that they are watching you. Good job I made the effort,’ she smiled, ‘Morning coffee alright with you?’
She beckoned the waiter and asked for coffee and biscuits.
‘Now this may sound a bit odd and far-fetched, but we wanted to get your opinion before we go any further. Incidentally, Bill is asking Richard exactly the same question, we didn’t want you to be together as it could look a little suspicious. You are at perfectly liberty to say no, but we would like you to invite Mosley to your party in July. The reason being, that we think this will bring more people out into the open and it will give us a very good indication of who his really serious supporters are among your guests. He may also be of interest to our German friends. At the same time his rants, if you can put up with them, may dissuade some others from supporting him, especially as his political star seems to be waning. The reason we wanted to ask you first is because there is a distinct downside to this. He will undoubtedly want centre stage and he will most certainly use it as some propaganda exercise. He will also come with one or two attendants. We would have to keep the whole visit very quiet, because we do not want the press or his opponents to know. We are aware from one of our insiders that your last event came up in conversation at a recent BUF dinner, so you are known to him and hence the increased interest in you personally.’
There was a pause as the coffee tray was placed on the table with an array of accompanying cake-like biscuits.
‘Oh dear, that sounds a bit worrying. Would we have any support people there on the night, apart from yourselves and the catering team, in case of trouble?’
‘Yes, security will be very tight, and he will probably arrive in one of the black windowed vehicles that he has at his disposal, so he shouldn’t be seen arriving or leaving. Incidentally, the Snowdens have guests who I don’t recognise. Are you able to see without being noticed?’
Cynthia dropped her linen napkin on the floor and as she bent down to retrieve it glanced across the room. ‘I do,’ she said ‘they are both members of the knitters. Keep talking while I remember their names.’
‘We realise that this is an imposition, but we think it will be a useful ploy. If you agree we will need to work out a way of getting an invitation to him and how we word it.  Leave that with us.
‘I’ve remembered they are Monika Fischer and Karen Becker. Now that is interesting. The Harringtons were in Berlin when we were there, but as far as I know the Snowdens weren’t. How do they know each other?’























CHAPTER 22
‘I don’t think the Snowdens were following you, they were here to meet the others. It may be just coincidence, but I will report back to Bill anyway. Do you have any further questions about our suggestion?’
‘No, I’ll discuss it with Richard when I get home, but I can’t see there being a problem. I’d better be getting back. Got to give the watchers something to do. I wonder if I can get out without been seen.’ She nodded towards the Snowdens. ‘I’ll give you a ring later this evening. By the way, did you know that Noel Coward is sitting behind you? Just thought I’d mention it.’
‘Really! OK, you go while I get the bill. The department’s paying for this. Have a good journey home. Our people will pick you up outside and trail you to Paddington. I presume you’re walking back.’
‘Yes, too nice a day to be sitting on the underground.’
Cynthia turned away from the Snowdens and walked out of the hotel and made her way to the station and home. If she was being followed, she couldn’t tell.
That evening she and Richard agreed that they really had no other option but to invite Mosley and his cronies, so Cynthia rang and informed Bill.
‘I’ll get back to you with all the arrangements. We’ll sort out the invitation, but it will seem to be coming from you so he, or more likely his secretary, will contact you direct. I wouldn’t think he would turn down an opportunity to have a platform as it were. Speak soon.’
Mary sent out the invitations at the end of the month, same timings, same format but there was no mention of Mosley attending. Although she invited Gerda and Lena, she did not ask them to send a list of other guests, because there would be enough already. Although, on Cynthia’s suggestion Mary did say that a couple more of the knitters could attend if they wanted to. 
Both Richard and Cynthia tried to ignore the press reporting of the BUF actions because it made them increasingly anxious, so they immersed themselves in their normal work routines. They did however have a very successful day at Royal Ascot where they backed the Aga Khan owned winner, Felicitation in the Gold Cup, ridden by Gordon Richards at 9/2. 
Within the week, many of the guests had responded and Gerda and Lena had said that they would be staying with the Snowdens again, the excuse being that it would take some of the pressure of Cynthia, and Richard would not need to meet them, and many thanks for the extra invitations, but it would only be the two of them again. It certainly helped, as there would be nobody staying in the house, the hospitality was now confined to the Saturday evening.
It wasn’t until the end of June, after the BUF debacle at Olympia that Mosley’s secretary, as predicted, sent them a letter of acceptance. His wife had died the year before so he would be attending on his own with two bodyguards.
As July 7th got closer, Cynthia in particular became more nervous. Every time she went out now, even in the car, she thought she was being followed, a belief which to some extent was confirmed by Gladys.
‘Have you noticed that there seems to be a lot of strangers about recently’ she asked Cynthia when she was next in the shop. ‘Are you having another one of your get-togethers like last year?’
‘Yes, on the 7th of next month. Hopefully, we won’t disturb anybody.’
‘It certainly won’t bother me. I am usually dead to the world by 9.30.’
The routine on the day was exactly the same as the first one. The caterers were the first to arrive mid-morning, then extra chairs were brought by lorry before lunch and Edwin arrived with his team mid-afternoon, a little earlier than usual because he wanted to check the security. As the house was in a remote location, he did not expect any gate-crashers, but Mosley tended to attract undesirables so there was always the possibility of something untoward happening.
Guests started arriving at 7.30 to be greeted by Cynthia and Richard and the customary two waiters with drinks trays. In order to make it simpler there was no food in the conservatory this time, it was all going to be canapes served by the team with the idea that they might be in a better position to overhear conversations and react to any unrest should there be any. 
Mosley and his minders did not arrive until after eight, by which time he was able to make an entrance, although quietly as he was deliberately not announced. He was not in his uniform but dressed in a light grey suit. His minders, however, were in their usual black attire, complete with leather boots and side buttoned jackets. They were very intimidating made more so, by their size. They were both over six foot tall and well-muscled. 
Mosley himself was rather condescending in his manner. ‘Lady Cynthia, it is a great pleasure to meet you,’ taking and kissing her hand. ‘I have heard so much about your support for the cause. It is always heartening to welcome new members. I understand that you have met Hitler. That must have been an amazing experience for you. I have never had that pleasure, although I have met with Mussolini and I was very impressed by the way he gets things done in Italy.’
‘I only saw him across a crowded room, but he certainly had an effect on the gathering. There is a presence about him which I am sure some find intoxicating.’
‘Do you agree that we should adopt the same social policies, here? This country has great need of a party that offers something new, don’t you think? We need to rid ourselves of the Jewish menace which is undermining our social fabric.’ 
Cynthia blanched at such a blatant statement and she hoped her reactions and anger did not show or was noticeable in her voice. She was keen to get off the topic and talk about something less contentious, but she realised quite quickly that it was going to be nigh on impossible. Instead she relied on diversionary tactics.
‘Let me introduce you to some of the other guests, especially those who have made the trip from Germany. I’m sure they will be very keen to meet you.’
She led him across the lawn, minders in tow, and presented him to Gerda and Lena, who as Cynthia predicted, were ecstatic to be in the presence of such a well-known celebrity.
‘If you don’t mind Sir Oswald, I have a few things to attend to. Gerda and Lena will look after you.’
Cynthia went off in search of Bill, Jane and Hannah, who was intentionally keeping her distance from the others and as yet had not been recognised as ‘that intolerable Miss Gilchrist’.
‘That man is insufferable,’ she said, barely controlling her anger. ‘What gives him the right to talk like that? He’s only been here five minutes.
‘Unfortunately, a mixture of his ego, perceived power and his minders,’ said Bill. ‘I am quite happy for him to sound off about his views and policies as long as he does it one-to-one or in small groups. What we must not do is allow him to address the whole group and turn this into a political rally. We are more interested in those around him. Edwin and the others are keeping a close eye on him, and the individuals who are making sure they are noticed and, unsurprisingly, it would seem that our usual friends are keen to get his attention. The Snowdens are having a long conversation with him over something. Stay alert, they are coming over here. Best if I leave you to it. I have never met him, but I think it best that I stay out of his way in case our paths cross in the future. I’ll find Richard and get him to join you.’
‘Lady Cynthia,’ said Mosley in a patronising way. ‘I wonder if we might have a word with you.  I have been speaking to Peter and Marjorie here, actually we go back some way. Marjorie was a friend of my late wife. Coincidentally, she was Cynthia as well. They have been telling me how you have supported us over the past year in arranging these events to bring our ideology to a wider audience. I wonder if I might prevail upon you to offer one service which could be of great importance were we to either align with Germany and Italy or if we had to go to war with them again because of our present intransigent narrow minded politicians. Is it alright to talk here, or would you prefer somewhere more private?’
The thought of being alone with these three ‘somewhere private’ did not enthral her.
‘No, this will be fine. We can at least see if anyone else is approaching us.’ Coincidentally at that point Richard arrived.
‘Good evening all. We haven’t met, have we?’ extending his hand towards Mosley. ‘Am I interrupting anything?’
‘No, I was about to explain something to Lady Cynthia, but this actually concerns you as well.  I’ll get straight to the point. We have been, let’s say, keeping an eye on you for a while. 
‘That accounts for the followers,’ she thought, 
‘and it is apparent from the reports we’ve received is that your interest in our cause is genuine. As I said earlier, Peter and Marjorie and the Harringtons, all speak very highly of you.  So, in the event of any need arising, we would like you consider acting as a safe house for an agent, or agents coming into the country who might be in need of somewhere to hide? We have already established one or two, either through the support of Peter and Marjorie or through our known contacts in Germany so you would be one of many and may never be called upon at all. However, it is always good to have more than we might need. Think of it in the same way as hiding Catholic priests during Elizabeth’s time.’
Her first reaction was to tell him something rude, but then remembered that this was the whole point of the trip to Berlin and the parties. So, she made an attempt to lighten the conversation and at the same time calm herself down.
‘I come from long line of Protestants so I don’t think my predecessors would have been doing that, in fact I would suggest they would have done the opposite.’ She made an attempt at a smile, but she was far from jovial. This man was basically asking her to commit treason by harbouring enemy agents, were they to become the enemy of course. However, setting her personal feelings aside, they had at least been successful in drawing him and his close devotees ‘out’ which Bill had asked them to do at their very first meeting.
Richard was aware of the almost imperceptible change in Cynthia’s body language and interjected before she said anything she might have regretted later. ‘Do you want an answer now, or can we have some time to think about it? You are asking a lot of us and it is not something we can agree to on the spur of the moment.’
‘I quite understand. There is no immediate hurry, but it will be good to know one way or the other. It might be difficult to get hold of me direct, so may I suggest you use Peter as a go-between. If you excuse me, I will mingle for a while before quietly taking my leave. Thank you for a very pleasant evening. I hope to hear from you soon.’ He nodded to them both and left them with the Snowdens.
‘An amazing man isn’t he?’ said Marjorie. Almost exactly the same sentiments that the knitters had expressed in the Adlon about Hitler.
Cynthia was very non-committal. ‘He is certainly very interesting. You need to give me your phone number before you leave so we can give you our answer. In fact, a better idea, give it to Mary.’ She strode off, not really wanting to have any more to do with them for the rest of the evening. She went in search of Hannah and Bill, surprisingly she found the latter having a conversation with Louise who, when she walked up to them, drifted away. Bill was mumbling to himself as if concerned over something.
Cynthia brought him back to reality. ‘Well it worked. He wants us to act as a safe house, but more importantly you now know that the Snowdens and Harringtons have a serious part to play in all of this. Something we’ve all suspected, but good to have it confirmed.’ She looked over Bill’s shoulder to see Mosley and his entourage leaving by the gate in the hedge. ‘I am to contact him via the Colonel.’ 
‘Well done. I realise it wasn’t easy for you this evening, but you did it well. We can now step up our monitoring of those here tonight. I’ll discuss this with Edwin on Monday. I don’t think we can do anymore at present. In my opinion there is no need for any more parties, unless you want to continue,’ he said with a smile.
‘No thanks, I’ve had enough of pandering to these people. I will of course keep up the pretence. I presume you want us to agree to his suggestion.’
‘Of course,’ replied Hannah. ‘For the first time since we started this, we are now in control. We are the ones able to dictate, no pun intended, how this will progress, because all the people here are still unaware of the department’s involvement and our ability to keep a very close watch on their movement and contacts. We simply wait to see what happens next.
In the event, not a great deal happened at all for a long time. 




























CHAPTER 23
After the July party, Mosley’s power and political influence was mainly in decline. He continued to speak vehemently on Anti-semitism, which led to increased violence on the streets, culminating in what became known as the Battle of Cable Street in October 1936. 
The BUF tried to campaign in an area of the Eastend of London where many of the residents were Jewish. Protesters successfully blocked the march and after the intervention of the Police Commissioner, Mosley was forced to abandon it.  Bill and his team kept a close eye on all that was happening in terms of possible influence from Europe but there did not seem to be any links. However, in December 1936, in response to such unrest, the Government introduced the Public Order Act, which banned political uniforms and violence something which had been witnessed, not only on the streets in London, but also on the news films screened in British cinemas showing the intimidation carried out in Germany by the uniformed SA.
Strangely, although designed to curb the party, for a while the Act had the opposite effect. As the violent element had seemingly been removed more people joined its ranks. Although the likes of the Harringtons and Snowdens, and many of the others who had attended Cynthia’s parties wanted to see strong leadership, the bullying tactics of the BUF had never appealed to their middle-class sensibilities. Encouraged by this new wave of popularity the BUF continued to put up candidates for various public elections, including the London County Council in 1937 and a couple of by-elections with the manifesto ‘Mind Britain’s Business’ which again appealed to the middle-classes, but with no success. 
Mosley himself remained popular with his followers to the extent that his ‘Britain First’ rally at Earls on July 16th, 1939 attracted 30000 delegates and was the largest political assembly in British History. Cynthia had received a personal invitation from the Harringtons to accompany them but had declined citing a previous engagement, her birthday.  In reality, having seen Hitler on the newsreels, the thought of listening to a similar lengthy dogmatic, demonic, diatribe appalled her. 
Apart from the offer to join them, Cynthia had still not been contacted by the group on any matter of importance. To some extent they had gone underground as their desire for a National Socialist state in Britain was no longer looking likely. The general mood of the population was now very much against it. More emphasis was being placed on a British spirit which did not need the likes of Mosley and the BUF. 
When war started in September 1939, just a couple of months after the Earls Court event, Mosley led a campaign for a negotiated peace with Germany, to be brokered by the Italians. A cause taken up less publicly by others such as Lord Halifax.  By now the authorities were losing patience with him. Mosley had been tolerated by the establishment for a long time, and although Bill and his colleagues had prior knowledge of what his plans were, because of infiltration and phone taps, on the 23rd May 1940 they had had enough. His oratory was now considered too dangerous to be given a public platform so, along with others, he was interned under the Defence Regulations 18B. The BUF ceased to exist as a political force and was proscribed later in the year.
Mosley was never charged with any offence but spent the next three years living with his second wife in a house in Holloway Prison until his controversial release in 1943. Politically, he was a spent figure. It was left to the likes of the Snowdens, Harringtons, the Davies’ and their other contacts to continue their fifth column activities without him as a figure head. Unbeknownst to Cynthia, but not Bill, the Snowdens in particular had strengthened links with their German counterparts over time, and to Hitler, whose rise to power since the July party had seen the map of Europe change.
While the BUF and Mosley had been losing their influence, Hitler had taken a firm grip on power.  In July 1934, after the death of Hindenburg, he became Fuehrer and Reich Chancellor. In 1935 he began unravelling the terms of the Versailles Treaty by re-arming and introducing conscription. In 1936 he managed to circumvent the problems of not being allowed an air force by sending German aircraft, as the Condor Squadron, to help Franco in the Spanish civil war and two years later, in 1938, he used his new-found popularity, backed by his propaganda machine and the military, to regain some of the lost territories. In March, the Austrian Chancellor, Kurt von Schuschnigg, proclaimed a union with Germany, the Anschluss. In September, the World War 1 allies agreed in Munich to allow Hitler to take the Sudetenland area of Czechoslovakia which he occupied in October, and in November he instigated what was to become known as Krystal Nacht when more than 7.500 Jewish shops and 400 synagogues were destroyed by fire and more than 20,000 Jews sent to concentration camps. 
All this was being witnessed by the public in English cinemas although little seemed to be being done by other countries to control German expansion or influence. Cynthia wondered how the knitters were dealing with the situation. Although on the one hand they obviously worshipped Hitler and wanted him as leader she did question how they would view his extreme measures. Although she never agreed with their politics, a few of them seemed to be reasonably rational people. 
It wasn’t until after his Mosley’s release that Cynthia received her first direct communication from the group. The phone call, from the Marjorie Snowden, came unexpectedly one Saturday morning.
‘Good morning Cynthia. I hope I find you well. I thought I would give you a call and see how you were.’
‘We’re fine thanks. I’m doing some work with the local WVS and tending to the garden. We have been growing vegetables which has not only made us self-sufficient but enabled us to give some to the shop. Richard is still working in London.’
Marjorie wasn’t really interested in Cynthia’s news and went off at a tangent. 
‘That’s good. Don’t you think the treatment of Mosley was unfair? There was no harm in him telling the country what they really wanted to hear. I cannot believe they interned him, but I’m relieved he has now been released. I am really looking forward to hearing him again. We still need his leadership.’  
‘But,’ replied Cynthia, ‘have you not read about his retirement? It’s in all the papers. He is staying with family and then moving to the country somewhere. He is having nothing more to do with politics.’
‘That may be the case, but there is still a need for us to do what we can to further the cause. Have you listened to the broadcasts from Germany by Lord Haw Haw. He is the one telling us the real story of what’s going on. We are being misinformed by our own press.’ As she continued her voice became more strident and emotional. ‘We cannot ignore the lies. We have to take action.’ She calmed down a little before continuing, ‘anyway, enough of my opinions. I have been asked by the others to contact you to say that you have not been forgotten, and that we will be calling on you soon to be of service. I cannot say anymore at present, especially over the phone. Speak soon,’ she rang off.
‘Bit brusque,’ thought Cynthia. ‘This is ridiculous, she obviously has no grasp of the bigger picture and she’s deluding herself if she thinks there would be support for a resurgence of the BUF or pro-German policies.’
Cynthia went to her bedroom to ring Bill and explain about the phone call. 
‘That’s good. I thought they had forgotten about you. Let me know how things progress. We are picking up indications that something might be in the offing, which may have a bearing on this. The phone call may confirm it. There must be a reason for putting you on alert.’
‘Bill, I know you can’t give me an answer, but I’m intrigued. How do you get your information?’
‘Ah, can’t tell you that of course, but it will all become clear once this is all over. Although it may take many years. Let me know as soon as they contact you again.’ 
She didn’t have to wait long. 



































CHAPTER 24
Cynthia was tending to her flower beds when a large car pulled up onto the gravel drive scattering stones in all directions. Two men dressed in overcoats not suitable for the hot weather and wearing trilby hats which were obviously part of an image they were attempting to project, got out and walked towards her. Almost simultaneously they produced their identity cards from their inside pockets.
Giving them a cursory glance, she asked sarcastically,
‘Why don’t you make your arrival more obvious?  Look what you’ve done to my drive, the stones sprayed on the lawn will play havoc with the mower. You had better come in doors. I presume you would like a drink of some kind.’
Leaving their driver in the car, her guests followed her through the front entrance to the house hidden beneath a rather ornate portico. 
‘Mary’, she shouted, ‘Can you bring coffee for three to the library please? No need for biscuits.’
She led them along the long corridor lined with heavy antique furniture and the dark family portraits in need of a clean, and into a room containing shelves and shelves of books, a single large desk and three leather chesterfields positioned in an open square in front of the fireplace.
‘Take a seat and tell me what all this is about”.
‘Mam,’ said the taller of the two in a slight but still noticeable Birmingham accent.
‘Before we go any further, please do not call me Mam…I am not the Queen…Lady Childreth, or simply Cynthia will do, and you are?’
‘Sorry, Lady Cynthia,’ not sure now on how to address her, ‘I am Mike Robbins, and this is Keith Macmillan. As you have probably guessed we are here in an official capacity. We’re working with the Wing Commander.’
Before he could continue, Mary arrived with the coffee and, out of habit, some biscuits and placed the tray on the table in front of them.
‘Thankyou Mary. Will you take a mug of tea to the driver in the car outside and then come back to join us?’
She turned to her two guests, ‘My Secretary,’ she explained…Fire away’.
‘He is in the country.’
‘Ah, so the trap is sprung. I had a message from the other side, as it were that something would happen soon. Are you expecting him to come here first?’
‘I doubt it. We picked up our information from phone call from Penzance and members of Special Branch will be following him to London. Others will pick him up from Paddington. According to our agent, he went to one specific compartment on the train where there were two others, a man and an elderly woman so we made arrangements for another member of our team to join the train at Taunton to follow the other man, just in case he is involved as well.’
‘Fine, so who am I expecting?’
‘To be absolutely honest we don’t know. He will probably make his way here after a couple of days in London. We will have someone follow him, so we will let you know his movements when we can. Meanwhile, just wait.’ He smiled at her while topping up his teacup. We do know that he is travelling under the name of Edwards. Have you heard anything from your group yet?’
‘Nothing except to wait, but they’re bound to contact me soon. What do you want me to do?’
‘Well, that’s the problem. Until he arrives and makes himself known to you, we have no idea of his intentions. All parties here are aware of his arrival, and as I said plans are in place to follow him. We have been asked to instruct you simply to do nothing at present, until we see how this unravels. You can contact the Wingco if things get awkward but only in an emergency. Just in case you are being watched.’ 
‘I have been waiting for a few years for something to happen, so much so that I thought they had forgotten about me, so a few more days will not be a problem.’
They both got up, shook Cynthia’s and Mary’s hand, thanked them for the coffee and left. ‘We will be in touch soon.’

Not long after their departure, the phone rang.
‘Cynthia, Peter Snowden here, we need to meet urgently. Can’t talk over the phone. Do you know the ‘Half-way House’ pub on the A4 a few miles the other side of Newbury?  If you don’t, you can’t miss it.  I realise it’s short notice, but I’ll see you there at 1.00.’ He put the phone down, leaving Cynthia staring at her receiver in surprise. 

Snowden rose when Cynthia went across to his table. 
‘Good afternoon, thanks for coming. I’ve taken the liberty of ordering you a white wine, I hope that’s OK.’
‘Thank you, that would be lovely. Now, why the urgency?’ Of course, she already knew the answer to this question, so had to maintain a semblance of surprise.
‘I know that we have kept you under wraps for a very long while, but now is the time for you to carry out that act of service which we discussed in the past. I understand Marjorie has forewarned you. We have been made aware, that a German agent has entered the country to carry out a single mission and we would like you to accommodate him once he has carried it out and until such time as we can smuggle him out of the country and over to France. We have no details, beyond the fact that his name is Edwards. He will go to London first, to be met by one of our people, carry out his task and either be brought to your house, or is that is impossible, he’ll make his own way there. I have no other details, so I cannot tell you how long he will be with you and who his contacts will be. You need to do nothing else, other than provide a safe haven.’
‘How will I recognise him?’
‘You won’t and you don’t need to. He will introduce himself as Edwards and show you a cheque book with that name on, issued by your husband’s bank. We will know when he is here so will maintain surveillance until we get further orders. Are there any questions?’
‘No, I am just pleased to be of service at last,’ she smiled.
‘I will probably not be in contact now until whatever the mission, whatever that might be has been carried out. Best if we don’t leave together, just in case, so please continue to enjoy the wine.’
Without further acknowledgement he left.

When she got home, Cynthia immediately rang Bill and explained the conversation she had had with Snowden. 
‘OK. We know about the arrival of Edwards, hence your visit earlier. He is being tracked as we speak. I wonder how they are aware of him being here it could only have been someone looking out for him in Penzance.’ 


CHAPTER 25 
For the past three days George Bennet had sat in the same seat in the window of the Atlantic Hotel making a pot of tea or a pint of beer last a long time and apparently reading a newspaper, always a day late, or giving a cursory glance at the menu which was both dog-eared and out of date as most of the meals listed had become increasingly unavailable as rationing took its toll. 
His position was ideal for watching the people walking down the narrow road some of whom he had got to know through their regular patterns of behaviour.  Virtually all they needed, the few shops, the Town Hall, offices, public houses were on this street which was no more than a quarter of a mile long.  One way led to Holgates Green, the other into the small square and then onto the harbour via the broken arch by the Mermaid pub.  The whole area was all very compact and self-contained. 
The staff probably saw him as a lonely middle-aged man, just too old for active service, seeking some respite from the effects of the war on the mainland. Although partly correct, at least the age bit, nothing could have been further from the truth.
He was looking out for one particular person, male or female, who didn’t quite fit in.  He knew they would be carrying a suitcase, probably two.  One of these would contain a radio, and would be heavy, at least 32 pounds in weight, so the carrier would show some strain in handling it.  He just had to be observant and patient. 
If he was honest, this was not the most onerous stake out he had taken part in.  The scenery and weather were good, the people were friendly, and it was all quite relaxing. Much better than sitting in an unmarked car, or on a park bench, in London…in winter.  
George knew the Isles of Scilly well, having holidayed there before the war with his wife.  When she died of Tuberculosis in 1936, he combatted his grief by volunteering for the unusual and often the most potentially dangerous cases on offer. With a rank of Chief Inspector, he could do almost what he wanted, within reason.  After a while his success rate and his recklessness had come to the attention of those higher up and he found himself seconded to Special Branch to lead a team of what could be colloquially termed ‘Spy Catchers’.  There were only five in the group, all senior officers with many years’ experience, but with the administrative back up of Scotland Yard and any other Police Force in whose area they were working.  The Isles of Scilly were the responsibility of the Cornwall constabulary which allocated one Police Constable to the islands in the winter and two in the summer. 
On the fourth morning his patience was rewarded. Eating breakfast at his usual table, he observed a dark-coated figure carrying two cases walking on the other side of the street.  Nothing too unfamiliar you might think, except as the Scillonian did not dock until after midday and had therefore not yet arrived, to see someone walking around town at that time of the morning with cases and wearing an overcoat in June was a little out of the ordinary. He finished his tea, picked up his newspaper and walked outside.  He needed to make sure that this was indeed his quarry and not some innocent businessman.  
He was not far in front of him and seemed not unduly concerned about his surroundings. In fact, he acted as if he belonged. George began to doubt his feelings about this man until his initial suspicions were more or less confirmed when he entered the Steamship Company offices, presumably to buy a ticket to the mainland.  
George walked across the street and stood in the porch of the Bishop and Wolf pub and read his paper. The man eventually came out and turned left towards Holgate Green and Town Beach. This was a small island, so he wasn’t going far. 
George went into the office. There was a young woman dressed quite sombrely, even for the time, sitting on a high stool behind the counter. 
‘Excuse me. The man who just came in. I seem to remember him from somewhere but can’t place him. Did he buy a ticket?’ 
‘Yes sir. A single ticket to Penzance for this afternoon.’
‘Did you happen to get his name by any chance? It might jog my memory.’
‘Hang on, let me look.’
She went back to her desk, checked the ledger and returned. 
‘The signature is a little difficult to make out but looks like T. something Edwards. Does that help?’
‘Edwards, Edwards. No doesn’t ring a bell. I’m returning to Penzance this afternoon so I may come across him again. Many thanks for your help.’
He smiled and was about to leave the counter when the Clerk said.  ‘A little unusual sir, but he paid by cheque so his account name should be on it.’
She returned to her desk and came back with cheque in hand. 
‘It’s Martins Bank, 68 Lombard St. London, sir. Account name T. G. Edwards’. 
He scrutinised it. Obviously genuine because the logo of a Grasshopper was at the top, and the Liver Bird at the bottom was embossed in the corner. And if he needed further proof, there was no apostrophe in Martins. 
‘Many thanks. You’ve been a great help’.
He turned and went outside. 
This was the right man. He knew precisely why a German agent would pay by cheque from one of the more obscure British banks. He had really wanted to make a note of the account number to confirm his opinion but if truth be told, he thought, it really didn’t matter.
All the elements were there, two suitcases, one obviously heavy, being carried around town at 9.00 in the morning by a man in an overcoat unsuitable for the time of year; the cheque clinched it.
As there was no return sailing until later that afternoon and only one way off the island, George had no need to follow Mr Edwards. As it was a sunny morning and he had time to spare, he took the opportunity to walk out towards Porthcressa Beach.  Avoiding the wire emplacements on the sands he followed the path over the hill and around Penninis Head to the church at Old Town Bay to visit an unusual grave.  The stone coffin of Naval Surgeon Abraham Leggatt, who died in 1809, had been placed in a vertical position in the south of the churchyard so that the top section containing his head overlooked the bay. Of course, rumours abound as to why he requested this, but none have stood the test of time. Perhaps he simply wanted to see the view thought George.

After a couple of hours, he returned to the Atlantic had a late lunch, packed his things and settled his account.  All he had to do now was be at the quayside ready for departure.  









CHAPTER 26
Just before four George was leaning against the sea wall looking like a typical tourist, casually dressed and with a rucksack at his feet.  It was still very sunny and the residual heat from the stones was pleasantly warm on his back. 
The Scillonian was tied up at the end of the quay opposite the harbour master’s office. A couple of men were putting the last of the cargo directly into the hold from above and a boat from one of the off islands, which had tied up alongside to transfer materials into the lower doors, was reversing into the waters off Town Beach.  It looked so commonplace, that one could easily believe that there was no war taking place.  However, there were signs…her once white hull and superstructure were painted black and the newly widened bridge now supported two Lewis guns. There was also a naval vessel waiting outside the harbour ready to escort her to the mainland. 
Edwards was already there and easy to spot as there were very few travellers going to the mainland and certainly not wearing heavy overcoats.  One serviceman in naval uniform obviously going back from leave, two women who were talking animatedly to one of the dockers, and a couple of others, seemed to be the full complement of passengers. 
When the ropes were removed from across the grey wooden gangplank, they all made their way onboard. The others went below and settled in the saloon, but George remained on top to get the sea air and the view. Edwards still seemed remarkably calm, so much so that again George had to convince himself that he was following the right person.  He was rather non-descript and not the archetypal German that had been seen on the newsreels...no blonde hair or distinguishing marks, but presumably that was part of the deception.
Exactly on time the boat left St Mary’s harbour with the destroyer on her port side and a Hurricane flying above it. Standard procedure for every journey.
Almost three hours later after a relatively calm crossing to the mainland and the sheltered sail along the Cornish coast passing many little fishing villages set back in coves, she was tied up at the Scillonian’s berth at the western end of Penzance harbour.  From this point on the trailing would be a little more difficult and what George did now really depended on Edward’s next move. 
There was no overnight train to London so he would need to stay somewhere in town. George followed him towards the station where he turned left up Station Road and into the Long Boat Inn, which was directly opposite. George went in behind him just to confirm that he was staying the night and then returned down the hill to the station. He entered beneath the arch and spoke to his colleague who had been at the same spot at the same time for the past few days waiting for him to arrive. He was dressed in shorts, long-socks, a fair isle jumper and a cap and was leaning against his bicycle looking like a typical holidaymaker.  The long sleeves on his shirt covered the burn scars he had received when his Hurricane had pancaked on landing back in 1940. 
‘Evening Jim!’
‘Hello George. Has he arrived?’
‘Yes, I have just seen him book a room at the Long Boat Inn up the road. Nothing more we can do tonight. But let me check the timetable to see train times for tomorrow.’
He went across to the board and tried to work out the departures for London. Penzance to Paddington via Exeter St Davids and Bristol Temple Meads 07.45. 
‘It looks like the first one goes at 7.45 in the morning, I’ll get a room in the same hotel and meet you here at about 7.15. Will that be OK?’
‘No problem’ he said, as he got on his bike and went off, to where George had no idea.
He went back to the hotel through the double doors and into reception to be greeted by the land lady. 
‘May I book a room for the night, and can I have an early morning call at 6.00?’
‘Of course, Sir, breakfast is served from 6.45 in the dining room through there.  May I see your identity card please. Also, if you are leaving early, we like to have payment in advance. Not that we don’t trust our guests, it just saves time in the morning, especially if you have an early appointment or a train to catch’.
He handed over his personal card and after all the details had been checked and recorded and returned to his wallet, he then took out his official one instead and placed it on the counter. 
‘Madam, in confidence, can you help me with some official business?’
She was rather surprised at being confronted with a Special Branch ID card, and just to make sure she looked at the photo again.  ‘So, Detective Chief Inspector George Bennet, how can I help you?’ she said with a smile.
‘The man who came in earlier, a Mr Edwards, can you tell me if he paid for his room by cash or cheque?’
‘Cheque Sir’
‘May I see it please?’
She went into the office behind the desk and returned with the cheque and handed it to him.  Martins Bank, same as the one in the Scillonian Office. 
‘Many thanks, you have been very helpful?’ 
He paid her the money for his room and she handed him a key. 
‘Is there a bar, or somewhere I can get a drink?’
‘Of course, just there,’ she said pointing to her left.
He picked up his bag and went through the glass door on his right to be met by the landlady again. Must be difficult to get staff he thought. 

As arranged, he was back at the station by the appointed time and waited outside. Edwards came soon after. 
Without any acknowledgement, Jim followed him into the ticket office to make sure of his destination and then bought a similar ticket. As he came out, he looked at George and mouthed the word ‘London’ and then watched Edwards proceed along the platform. It seemed to Jim as though he was looking for one particular carriage and after a while got in at the fourth one along.
Jim placed his bicycle in the goods van, boarded the train at the same carriage and sat down in the seat nearest the corridor in the section behind Edwards, looking towards the engine. 
Since he had a little time before the train departed as he already had an open-ended return ticket, George ambled along the platform and surreptitiously glanced into the carriage that Edwards had got in to. The elderly lady seated in the window looked at him and went back to her knitting.  He turned and went outside to an adjacent phone box, one, which for a change, did not smell like a urinal. He put through a long-distance trunk call to the London office via the operator, inserted the requisite coins in the box and when connected, pressed button A. He left a very simple message with the secretary at the other end to say that the target, using the name Edwards, was on the train to Paddington which would arrive in about ten hours and there were two other passengers in his compartment, a man and an elderly lady. Once he received confirmation that it would be passed on, he left the box, returned to the station and got on the train.
He walked down the corridor, slid open the door and entered the same compartment as Edwards. It had the usual musty smell and drab features of a carriage well beyond its life expectancy, even down to the faded black and white photos depicting scenes along the journey such as the Maidenhead Bridge over the Thames, and the Clifton Suspension Bridge in Bristol.
He placed his bag on the overhead rack, took a book from his pocket and settled down in the corner seat identical to Jim’s but looking towards the rear of the train, so all sight lines were covered. 
Apart from Edwards there were the two other people he had seen from the outside. The grey-haired woman of indeterminate age with a ball of wool and needles on her lap, wearing a maroon coat and a cloche hat that had obviously seen better days, and a studious looking man in a dark suit with thinning hair and wearing pince-nez glasses. 
Edwards had placed both his cases onto the luggage rack in between ones of similar design. 
No words were spoken as the wheels gave an initial shudder and they were on their way to London Paddington. 
After thirty minutes George left his travelling companions to their knitting and newspapers, went into the corridor and leant on the wooden rail which stretched the length of the carriage just below the bottom of the windows, and looked at the scenery as the train passed through Cornwall.
Although a little inconvenient, the fact that the Buffet car was closed made watching Edwards easier. He could not go far. 

The journey was uneventful. The lady was still knitting, the man in the corner was doing a crossword and Edwards was reading a book. The only break from the boredom was the ticket collector continually walking up and down the carriages informing passengers of the next station as of course all the signs had been removed to confuse the enemy.  Annoyingly, the train stopped at all the small stations along the line, but it made George realise just how important this train was to the local economy. In his opinion the most scenic part of the journey was when the train went through Dawlish and Dawlish Warren, where it looked as though it was travelling on the promenade right next to the sea.  As they pulled into Exeter St David’s he looked at his watch...12.15. It was ten minutes late, but not unexpected. The train was due in Paddington at 6.20, but that now seemed optimistic. 
As the train was about to leave Taunton, the group was joined by a young woman who George would guess to be in her mid-twenties wearing a tweed jacket and skirt, sturdy walking shoes and carrying a stick and a khaki coloured rucksack which she deposited in the empty space beside her.  She looked like a character often seen on the cover of some girl’s adventure story book. 
‘Phew. That was close. Got all my timings wrong.’ she giggled, ‘had to run the last half-mile.’  She spoke in a cultured voice the product perhaps of a good education. She swept off her beret to reveal auburn hair tied loosely at the back with a dark blue ribbon. She reminded him of one of Rossetti’s paintings. 
Once on the move again George went back into the corridor. Jim, in the compartment behind had not moved and was maintaining his role as a tourist by seemingly showing interest in a map which he had unfolded on his lap.  He turned back towards the window and opened a packet of cigarettes. 
‘Have one of mine.’ It was the girl from Taunton. 
‘Um, that’s very kind of you’
She offered him a blue packet containing Piccadilly cigarettes, a bit above the Woodbines he was used to. 
He took one and gave the carton back and proceeded to light her cigarette before his. 
They started a polite, but banal conversation.
‘Are you going to London?’ he asked
‘That depends. I may simply get off the train and explore a part of the countryside I have not seen before. That was what I was doing in Taunton…taking a bus and then walking around the little Somerset villages with obscure names like High Ham, Shepton Beauchamp and Martock. I spent a lot of time visiting the churches. There is a fabulous one in Langport which has some lovely Burne-Jones windows, although they are a little dark for my liking. Are you interested in church architecture? Fascinating subject.’  
‘No, I’ve not really had much time to develop many interests outside work’.
‘By the way, I’ve not introduced myself. I’m Alison and you are?’
‘George’, he replied
‘Nice to meet you George’, she said in a rather loud voice and as she shook his hand, she palmed a small piece of paper.

This trivial exchange went on for a few minutes more, before she went back and reoccupied her seat. George walked a little further down the corridor and read the note. ‘I’m with you…
I’ll follow the guy with the glasses.’
When he returned to his seat, she was leaning back with her eyes closed feigning sleep. An interesting character he thought. He had no idea who she really was, or what role she was playing but she was doing it well.  The train continued east stopping at Bristol Temple Meads and then Bath at 3.00, now 15 mins late. Getting a little claustrophobic, he resumed his place outside at the rail just as the train entered the long Box Tunnel. The train interior went dark for a couple of minutes as it travelled the 1.8 miles to the other end. An amazing piece of engineering he thought. 
Nothing was said for the rest of the journey. He spent time looking at the framed map above the seat opposite and began mentally ticking off the stations in turn, Chippenham, Swindon, Didcot, after which the inspector came along shouting ‘Goring and Streatley…next stop Goring.’  The lady with the cloche hat, put her knitting into a crocheted bag and reached up to take down one of the cases from the rack. She refused any offer of help and proceeded to walk along the corridor, out of the door and onto the platform. 
The train continued on its journey.

Declining an offer from the porter to carry her luggage the grey-haired lady walked out of the station onto Station Road and across to a small car that was already waiting. She put the case in the boot and sat in the passenger seat. 
‘Is that it?’, asked the driver, looking at the case.
‘Yes’, she said, ‘It was all very smooth. The three of us were in the same compartment as arranged and we didn’t say a word or acknowledge each other for the whole of the journey’. 
‘Anyone else see you?’
There were a couple of others; there was a man who spent his time reading and getting up to have a smoke in the corridor, and a young flibbertigibbet who got on at Taunton and couldn’t keep still. She was full of nervous energy. Nobody could have suspected anything. We did have a touch of good fortune. He was in the corridor when the train went through the Box tunnel, so the switch was easy.’
‘Excellent, a job well done. Let’s go home.’
They drove along the road, turned left over the railway bridge, down through the village, across two more bridges spanning the River Thames and into Streatley. At the crossroads they went straight across and up a very steep hill where, at the top, the road bisected the local golf club. After another couple of miles, they arrived at the village of Aldworth where they turned through the gates of a large timbered cottage. 
When she got indoors, she not only removed her travelling clothes, she also took off a grey wig which made her look years younger. 




























CHAPTER 27
When the train arrived at Reading at 5.40, according to the large clock above the platform, the man with the pince-nez went through the same routine, took down a case, apologised for making a fuss and walked out.  Almost as an afterthought, Alison got up and grabbed her rucksack and stick and looked across at George.
‘Never been to Reading before. I think I’ll get out here and spend a few days wandering around. Our paths may cross again. Goodbye.’
After the dark suited man had stepped off the train, he walked to the right, turned sharply and went down two flights of stairs. At the bottom, he turned left into a wide subway, walked back underneath the tracks and ascended the steps to arrive at the town side of the station.  Giving his ticket to the collector at the gate, he walked out onto the station concourse and straight across the road into the Great Western Hotel, a sandy coloured building at the junction of, according to the signs, Station Rd and Queen Victoria Street. 
He was followed all the way by Alison. She entered the hotel, deliberately hid her rucksack and stick behind a chair, approached the reception and made a play of retrieving a leaflet from a stand whilst listening out for his name.
‘I believe you have a reservation for me.  My name is Young.’
The receptionist went back to her desk and scanned a large ledger.
‘That’s correct sir, we do. May I have your ID please?’
Young complied, signed the register and was given his key. 
‘Number 107 sir, on the first floor. Up the stairs and to your right. Would you like a hand with your luggage?’
‘No thank you. I’ll manage.
Alison remained where she was, pretending to read about ‘what to do in the event of an air raid’, until he had disappeared from sight.
Now she knew where he was, she returned to the station, went into a cubicle in the ladies and changed. Off came the hat, tweeds, jumper and walking brogues, to be replaced by white blouse, grey jacket, black trousers and low-heeled shoes. She then removed the auburn wig, complete with ribbon, to reveal her natural short-cut light brown hair. Finally, she put on a pair of wire-rimmed clear-glass spectacles. The transformation was amazing; totally unrecognisable from the over-excited young rambler she had been just a few minutes before.
She took a purse and another small bag containing all she needed for an overnight stay from the rucksack, and replaced them with her discarded clothes, and wig. Then, after one final check in the mirror, she went outside to the Left Luggage Office where she deposited both her backpack and stick. She had already given over her original train ticket when she exited the first time, so when challenged she surreptitiously showed her official ID card and was let through without any fuss. 
It was now almost 6pm so she thought it unlikely that Young would be moving very far but she needed to make sure. She made herself comfortable in an armchair in the hotel lobby with a clear view of the stairs. He reappeared an hour later and walked straight past, obviously not recognising her, and went into the dining room. Satisfying herself that he was settled, she went to the reception desk.
‘May I book a single room for the night, and would it be possible to extend my stay should I need to?’
‘Of course, Madam. May I see your ID please?’
She handed over her personal one and as the receptionist was transcribing her details onto a card Alison asked for a seat in the dining room.
‘There is no need to reserve a table, Madam. We are usually quiet mid-week. Just ask the waitress.’
‘Thankyou. May I pay for my room now, in case I need to leave in a hurry tomorrow. I’ll pay each day if I stay longer, if that’s OK?’
‘That will be fine’, turning the register for her to sign. 
She took up the pen, signed the book and took the money from her purse to pay.
‘By the way, what time is breakfast?’.
‘It starts at 6.45 Madam, again in the dining room.’
With that, Alison thanked her and walked through the glass doors etched in pastoral designs typical of when the hotel was built. 








CHAPTER 28

While Alison was watching Young, the train had continued its journey through Twyford, Maidenhead and Slough, until if finally arrived at London Paddington, the imposing Great Western Railway terminus in the West of London. It was dark as the huge area of glass at the eastern end of the platforms was covered with decades of soot and smoke stains making it look like late evening. 
George waited until Edwards was out of the compartment with his two cases, before he rose picked up his bag and followed him onto the platform. As they were heading for the ticket collectors at the western end, Jim returned to the guard’s van to collect his bicycle.  George looked around and recognised at least six Special Branch agents, in various modes of dress reading papers, perusing the departure boards and being as unobtrusive as possible. They were there to cover any eventualities. There was no acknowledgement as Edwards was easily recognisable by the fact that George was close behind him. All had their role to play depending on which route he took. They had already been told that under no circumstances were they to arrest him or hinder his progress. He was their link to local sympathisers in the country.  There were none from overseas as all had been caught, turned and were now either double agents, or had been hanged in Pentonville Prison, or shot in the Tower of London. If you were an enemy agent, external or internal, the stakes were high. Churchill had been convinced that the German victories in Western Europe could not be solely down to tactics and better weapons, and he was convinced that there had to be a fifth column working within the country and he wanted them found. When he was informed that British nationals acting in this way could be prosecuted for Treason, but anyone from overseas could not, he introduced the Treachery Act within two weeks of taking office. By May 23rd the Bill had passed through parliament, received royal assent and carried only one sentence: death. Edwards was playing a dangerous game.
Having handed in his ticket he walked to the left-hand side of the station shadowed by four of the men, two behind and two in front.  He went up the slope and into Praed Street. At this point he stopped and referring to a piece of paper he had removed from his coat pocket he looked around. London Street was directly ahead, Craven Road to his right. He came to a decision and turned left, passing Norfolk Place and Bolivere Place on the right until he reached the Edgeware Road. Here he crossed over into Crawford Place, continued past the Laurie Arms and entered an adjacent greengrocer, all the while being followed. After a while he came out with a key, placed his cases on the path, and then unlocked the door immediately alongside the shop. He entered and after a short time closed the curtains in a room on the first floor overlooking the road. 
Leaving two men to observe, the other four, plus George and Jim who had followed on his bike, adjourned to the pub and sat at a pavement table. 
‘Right, we know where he is, so we need to keep an eye on where he goes and who he sees.’ He turned to a couple of them. 
‘Jim and I are going straight back to the office to organise a 24-hour watch on this place. Stay here with the others until I can get you relieved, which shouldn’t be long. Whatever you do don’t be seen. You know the routines. Under no circumstances apprehend any visitors. Understand?’
‘Fine.’
‘When you are replaced come to the Yard. We need a strategy meeting this evening so see you then. We’ll wait until you get there. Jim, I’m taking a taxi, will you cycle or leave the bike back at Paddington and come with me?’
‘You’re joking, if I leave it there, I won’t see it again. I’ll cycle thanks all the same.’ He set off back towards the Edgeware Road while George walked in the same direction as he would have a better chance of hailing a cab.’
They had all convened within the hour and others had been sent to relieve their colleagues on watch, this time sitting in the comfort of a small non-descript car.
‘Right,’ said George standing next to a blackboard holding a stick of chalk, ‘Let’s take stock. We know where he has come from and we now know where he’s staying. That’s a start, but the big questions are why is he here, and why now? Jim, I would like you to liaise with Bill Laurie over at 5 to see if they have anything to pick up radio signals from that flat. I would have thought he would need a higher location, although, he may be wanting to hide his transmissions in the general broadcasting noise in the area. There’s plenty of it. Jenkins and Dent are in the car now, but we will need at least another two so we can have a 24-hour watch for as long as we need it.’ He turned to another colleague. ‘Bert, can you sort that and make sure everyone takes a careful note of anyone who enters the building, and make certain they follow him if he leaves. Unless something happens, which needs an urgent response, we will meet here at 19.00 every evening, apart from the watchers of course.
In the meantime, we wait.’
Within hours the cars were organised, and a rota of observers was drawn up. On the second evening they met to discuss the day, Jenkins looked at his notes and reported that apart from a postman delivering mail, nobody else had entered the building. There was nothing else out of the ordinary. He had not left, which meant that he must have had plenty of food in the flat. At the next three meetings, the reports were exactly the same. Nobody went in and nobody came out. 
‘What is going on?’ said George. ‘There is something not quite right here. I presume we checked there was only one entrance, he couldn’t have got out via the shop could he.’
‘No, first thing we checked. The building backs straight onto another one. No other exit or entrance.’
George sighed, stood up and walked across to the window deep in thought. After a few seconds he turned to the others. ‘So, we have a choice. We can either maintain a watching brief, or we can be more proactive. We will wait for tonight’s reports and then make a decision tomorrow. Jim, have we had any news about the radio being used?’
‘No, they say it’s difficult to get hold of the equipment, so may be a day or so.’
‘Brilliant,’ said George sarcastically. ‘So, a decision tomorrow. Agreed?’
There were nods of agreement around the table. ’Good, let’s call it a day. Anyone fancy a pint? Jim’s buying. No not really, I’m going for quick one before going home if anyone wants to join me.’ He left, followed only by Jim and Bert.
While all this had been happening, Alison had been following Young in Reading.
After a fitful night’s sleep interrupted by the sound of trains, she was in the dining room as soon as it opened in case Young did the same. She did not want to miss him. She had a book with her in case it proved to be a long wait and after she had eaten a meal of limited choice, she took her time over the coffee. He came in at about 8.00 just had tea and toast and went out again. Alison followed, but only as far as the foyer where she could again watch the stairs. After 30 minutes he returned carrying his case, handed his key to the receptionist and went outside.  He then walked back towards the station, but instead of going inside he went to a row of bus stops on the right, outside the Southern Rail station, which was a smaller and lower building than the main one. This one served towns to the Southeast of the town as far as the coast and London Waterloo. Young perused the numbers on the flag-like signs jutting out at right angles from the poles and then making his choice, got into a queue. Alison was three behind him having deliberately waited for other passengers to turn up.
A number 11, red single-decker bus arrived at the stop and the queue shuffled forward to get on. Alison passed while Young placed his case in the luggage area and made her way to the back so she could see everyone in front of her. As the bus moved away the ticket collector came to her first to collect the fares. As she had no way of knowing when he would get off, she paid to the terminus, wherever that might be. As well as keeping an eye on him, she paid close attention to the route the bus was taking, specifically any remaining road signs or other indicators of where she might be, in case she had to find her own way back. Having left the station it went into the town and stopped outside St Mary’s church, it then turned right up Castle Hill and onto the Bath Road which would indeed eventually lead to Bath, but hopefully not in this bus she thought. After going through the village of Theale, worked out by a sign over the butchers, the bus turned right and after a few minutes turned left and past a farm with Chalk Pit written on the gate.  About half a mile later, the road seemed to bisect a school with buildings and playing fields on either side. The bus then continued up a hill to an impressive war memorial with its Passchendaele cross, turned right and stopped opposite the Queens Head pub. By now there were only five people remaining. At a signal from the conductor, it continued for another 2 miles past a garage on the left, a post office, through the village and then between a double avenue of large oak trees, until it stopped at the Blade Bone Inn a couple of minutes later.
‘That’s all folks, end of the line,’ announced the ticket collector. He must have been watching too many Looney Tunes cartoons in the cinema thought Alison. 
As the last passengers alighted Alison asked him about the times of the buses back. 
‘They leave from across the road every hour until the last at 6.00 this evening’ he replied.
‘Thankyou.’

Young turned and walked back along the road and turned towards a gate on his left. As Alison watched from a bench nearby, he took a few steps up the drive looked at the house, came out again and went back to the village and into the shop.
‘How strange,’ thought Alison, ‘what is he doing?’
He came out a couple of minutes later holding a bag of biscuits, sat on the grass and proceeded to eat them. It looked as though he was waiting for the next bus. Alison was now in a difficult situation. She could not get on the same bus without having a purpose to be out in the country because Young might realise that he’d been followed. On the other hand, if she left the bench and went for a walk, he could quite easily go off somewhere and she would have no idea where. She ran through the options in her mind ‘It looks as though he has come here just to see this house, and perhaps get his bearings for some reason. Now the question is whether he is going to move or stay for the next bus.’
The answer came sooner than she thought.
Young rose from the grass, put the empty biscuit bag in his pocket, picked up his case and returned to the house. This time he walked over the cattle-grid and continued up a long drive towards the building, knocked on the door and waited. It was opened by Cynthia.
‘Good morning Lady Childreth. I understand you are expecting me,’ said Young.
Cynthia was rather taken aback. She was indeed expecting someone, but this man certainly did not fit the description she had been given.
Alison went back to the village and to the phone box standing immediately next to the bus shelter and made two calls. The first was to Bill explaining where she was and what she had witnessed. Bill in turn, asked her to wait around and catch the last bus back to Reading if nothing had happened in the meantime. 
The second call was to Cynthia using the number Bill had given her. After a minute or so the phone was picked up.
‘Hello, Cynthia Childreth. How can I help you?’ asked Cynthia tentatively.
‘Lady Childreth, the Wing Commander asked me to phone you. Are you able to talk?’
The code had been triggered, so Cynthia felt better about taking the call.
‘Yes, I am in my bedroom, everyone else is downstairs.’
‘I have been following the man who has just arrived at your house. His name is Young and he was on the train from Penzance yesterday and stayed overnight in Reading. He walked up your drive about half an hour, before coming back and going into the shop. He may have been making sure yours was the right house. Am I correct in assuming that you were expecting him?’
‘Yes, I was told yesterday. But his name isn’t Young…he is Sir John Davies. I was told to expect a man called Edwards. I know I haven’t seen him in a while, but surely Davies would recognise me, or be concerned that I would recognise him.’
There was a pause, before Alison said. ‘Leave everything to me. I will call Bill and let him know. Afterwards, I’ll come to see you on some pretence. Make out I’m from the village or something.’
 She rang off and immediately called Bill again. 
‘That’s very strange and rather disconcerting. If she was expecting Edwards why has he been replaced by Davies acting as Young. That means that Davies was in the carriage with George throughout the journey so why use another alias? Leave this with me. In the meantime, see Cynthia and reassure her that we are around. If, Davies remains in the house is there anywhere local you can stay if necessary?’
‘I’ll find somewhere. I’ll be in touch.’
























CHAPTER 29
Another two days of observation in London and there was still no action to report. ‘OK. We are going to find out what’s going on. We need to have a legitimate reason to get into the flat because if he is still there, we don’t want to give ourselves away. ‘Jim, can you give the electric company a call and see if the meter is located inside, if not, try the gas. If they are, ask if they could supply us with a uniform and whatever equipment is needed.’
Jim returned. ‘Electricity is on the outside under the stairs, but the gas meter is in the flat. They will bring us the relevant clothes and forms within the hour.’
‘Good. We’ll meet here tomorrow morning at 9 and take it from there.’
They gathered in the office the following day when Bert was chosen as the stand-in gas inspector because he was the only one who could get into the uniform, which wasn’t very big.
‘We will drive to the area in three cars and park out of sight. Bert, just in case he is watching, make a visit to a couple of other places along the road before you knock on his door. That’s a point, does the door on the street only give access to the building or straight into the flat?’
‘Not sure but there is the only one door into the building George,’ said Bert,’ but that’s not a problem the lock is so simple my granny could pick it. A few seconds and I’ll be in.’
‘Right, just enter and if he is there, be very polite, read the meter, pass the time of day for a few seconds then walk out. Keep up the pretence for a bit longer just in case. We will not act if everything seems normal. OK? Let’s go.’
They returned to Crawford Place and dropped Bert off on the corner of the road. He duly visited a couple of houses first before he arrived at Edward’s door. It was unlocked which although unexpected made life a little easier. Bert climbed the stairs covered in an extremely thread bare carpet which had not been replaced for a considerable time. There was a strange smell, which Bert couldn’t place; perhaps from the neighbouring shop. The door to the flat was locked, so Bert knocked and called ‘Gas Man here to read the meter’. No answer, he tried again, still no answer. It was a flimsy construction, so he took the initiative and barged against it with his shoulder. The door gave way easily, and Bert was confronted with a smell so pungent that he could almost taste it. 
‘Oh my God,’ he said to himself. Lying on the floor immediately in front of him was Edwards with a very neat hole in the front of his forehead. Bert stood still, took a few deep breaths and then retraced his footsteps through the shattered doorway and back into the street. 
Once outside he leant against the wall and gathered himself.  George went across to him.
‘Are you OK? You’re as white as a sheet.’ At that point Bert threw up onto the pavement splashing both his and George’s shoes.
‘Sorry about that George.’ He wiped his hand across his mouth. ‘You need to take a look inside, but be prepared, it’s not a pretty sight.’
George left him in the care of one of the others, and taking Jim with him, entered the building and then the flat. The body was lying on its back with a look of surprise on its face. From the state it was in it had been there for a few days.  There was no evidence of a struggle and the only visible sign of death was the single shot to the head, now swollen beyond all recognition.
He turned to Jim.  ‘Tell Jenkins to take a car and get the police doctor here as soon as possible. We’ll also need one of our own photographers so see if he can do that at the same time, if not send someone else in the other car. We need to get this recorded and sealed off now and then get the local plod to do house to house. Whatever they say this comes under our jurisdiction, but we will need their manpower to do the basics. I’ll deal with the politics when I’m in the office. Can you get one of the others to check if anyone in the shop has heard or seen anything unusual over the past few days, but without giving anything away? The last thing we want is the press sniffing around. While you do that I’ll wait here for the Doctor.’ 
‘Will you be OK?’ asked Jim.
‘Yes, I’m fine, but you know, none of this makes any sense.’ He turned to look at the body careful not to disturb anything ‘We’ll meet at 19.00 as usual and go through it all again.’







CHAPTER 30
The Doctor arrived soon afterwards, gave a cursory glance at Edwards and stated the obvious.
‘Death caused by a single shot to the head. Won’t be able to give you anymore until I get a closer look at him. Your colleague stressed the need for secrecy, so I’ve arranged for him to be picked up by an unmarked ambulance.  It should be here soon.’ 
Dent came in. ‘Just checked in the shop sir, they say they didn’t see or hear anything. I asked them about the key, and they said they are only the key holders. They have no idea who could have unlocked the street door and they don’t know who now owns the flat which according to them hasn’t been used for years. It used to be owned by a guy who was called up and died at Dunkirk, but that’s all they could tell me.’
‘The place looks clean, the cupboard is stocked with food and the gas and electricity are working, how do they account for that? Someone must have been here, and recently. Can you go to the council offices and ask who pays the rates and find out where the gas and electric companies sends their bills? There doesn’t seem to be any mail lying around so it either doesn’t come here or it’s been picked up by someone. Before you go, give me a hand to get these cases on the table would you.’
The cases were identical to the ones he had followed from the Scillies earlier in the week. The first had already been opened, because the catches were undone and there were a few clothes lying on the bed which had been slept in, so he concentrated on the second one the heavier of the two. He flicked the clasps on either side and lifted the lid.
‘Well, I’m damned. So much for a radio. John, look at this.’ 
Dent returned and looked over George’s shoulder. ‘Books!’ he uttered in surprise, ‘and a lot of them. No wonder it was heavy. But I thought he was supposed to be carrying a radio.’
‘So did I, so did I. This is getting curiouser by the minute.’ He stood back and pondered his next move. 
‘I need to get back and make some phone calls and, on the way, I’ll go to St Johns Police station to organise some help. Before you check the rates and services tell the rest of the team to stay here and make sure nothing is touched. We can’t lock this door, but we may be able to secure the one downstairs once he’s been removed. I’ll send the car back once I get to the Yard. See you at seven.’
With that he went onto the street and got into his car. He was very diplomatic at St Johns. The Chief Inspector there was concerned and a little aggrieved that he did not have control of what looked like a murder investigation on his own patch, but when George explained it was a matter of national security, he agreed to provide any help that was needed.
‘Thanks. You know the drills. I need as much information I can get from the locals, without making it obvious what has happened. I’m not expecting your lads to come up with anything important, but you never know. Do you have a beat officer who does that area?’
‘We do.’
‘Could you ask him if he saw anything out of the ordinary? If he walks around there every day, he must know it well, so he would be the most likely to notice something or someone different.’
‘I’ll ask him myself when he comes back on duty. Do I contact you at the Yard?’
‘Yes.’ He wrote a few figures on piece of paper and pushed it across the desk. ‘That’s my direct line, saves going through the switchboard. Let me know of anything you find, no matter how insignificant you think it might be. Thanks for your cooperation. I know it’s not easy to pass up on a case like this, but even I haven’t been given the full picture yet. I’ll keep you informed as much as I can.’ He rose and extended his hand to the Inspector. 
George went back to the Yard and having sent the car back, made his way through the wooden clad corridors to his office and slumped into an armchair. Within seconds there was a cup of tea on his desk.
‘Thought you might like this sir.’
‘June, you are a lifesaver,’ he said with a smile. 

He picked up a notebook and started doodling, his usual practice when deep in thought, and went through the events of the week right back to his first sight of Edwards in St Marys. By the time the others arrived at 7 he had constructed a reasonably detailed timeline. The two suitcases were open and on the table in front of him. 
‘Right, let’s get on with it. 
 I’ll go through what we have so far, but please interrupt if I have overlooked anything, or you suddenly get some inspired thought. I spent the afternoon going over everything, from me picking him up in St Mary’s to seeing him into his flat. It was a useful exercise because it raised a few unanswered questions. 
First of all, it was obvious that everything had been arranged for him, except the ticket from St Marys to Penzance, but even there he paid with a cheque with the name of Edwards, a name we had been asked to look out for some years ago. He used it again at the hotel, but paid cash for the rail ticket. Thinking back, Jim you said he seemed to be looking for a specific compartment on the train, because he walked up and down on the platform a couple of times before getting on. In it were the elderly lady and the guy who looked like a cleric or classics professor. There were two cases on the rack, identical to these that we found this morning. He indicated the cases now on the table. This case contains his clothes. Nothing unusual here, there are no identifying labels of any sort, as one would expect, but anyone notice anything about the books? Take a close look.’
They weren’t really sure what they should be seeing, as far as they were concerned, it was a black suitcase full of books.
‘Not sure…well look at the titles.’
‘They’re all in English.’
‘Correct, so what does that tell us?’
‘This had to be packed here. He did not bring it with him.’
‘Absolutely, it confirms what we already thought, that the switching of the cases happened here, and it could only have been on the train or the hotel, and I doubt it took place there. So, if one or both were interchanged, where did it happen?’
‘Which route did you take sir, was it via Bath?’
‘Yes,’
‘Well, meaning no disrespect sir, it can only have taken place in the Box Tunnel. If, I remember from my journeys to Bristol it goes very dark. Were you in the compartment yourself?’
‘No, I was in the corridor. Good point. So, for the moment, let’s go with that, it’s as good a theory as any. There’s something else. A woman got on a Taunton, who clearly knew me because when she offered me a cigarette and passed me a note saying she would follow the man. Not exactly her words but something like it. When he got off at Reading, so did she. I need to follow that up.’
‘Where did the other lady get off sir, the elderly one, or was she with you at Paddington?’
George gave this some thought. ‘I have to say I didn’t take much notice of her, but it was before Reading. Goring I think. Yes, that’s right because I remember her refusing any help with her case.’
‘That’s the journey dealt with and I will need to make some other enquiries, especially about the Taunton girl. Let’s look at this end. Facts, Edwards was killed with one shot to the head. This happened not long after his arrival because he had only unpacked a couple of items of clothing, although the bed had been slept in. Had he eaten or made a cup of tea? Did anyone check the sink to see if there was any washing up in it? Might help to give us a time frame. There was no sign of a forced entry, except Bert’s, and the way he was lying on the floor indicates that he must have been shot as soon as he opened the door, because if his assailant had had a key he might have entered and shot him somewhere else in the room. Did he know him? Was there a code word? Whoever it was had to have gained entry from the street door, so can you look at your notes again and see if anything stands out, now we know what might have happened?’
All those who had been watching the building referred to their notes. 
‘Nothing unusual as far as I can make out sir. Nobody approached the flat at all apart from the postman.’
‘John, say that again.’
‘Nobody went near the door except the postman.’
‘In that case, where was the mail?’ There was nothing inside the street door, and nothing in the flat that we could find. Think very carefully, take your time and go over exactly what you saw again. Do it aloud if you like, it often helps.’
Slightly self-consciously John described the scene. 
‘The postman went into a couple of houses along the road…’
‘Describe him. Anything unusual?’
‘Not really, quite small, blue uniform, cap pulled down over his eyes, canvas satchel over his shoulder, wodge of letters in his hand, a typical postie.’
John thought for a moment. ‘He got to the door and went in. Hang on, why would he need to go in and how, if it was locked? 
‘Excellent, we’re getting somewhere. Carry on.’
‘A couple of minutes later he came out, pulled the door up, took some letters into the shop and then continued his delivery along the road.’
‘Jim, tomorrow get onto the local sorting office and find out who was doing that round on that day,’ he looked at John.
‘About what time?’
John looked at his notes. ‘Here it is, Day 2 postman 10.30.’
‘Did any of you hear anything, gunshot, car backfiring?’
‘Nothing at all.’
‘Gentlemen, I think we may possibly have a suspect for our killer but that is as far as it goes. It is all very circumstantial. We need more evidence. So, plan for tomorrow. Jim get onto the post-office, John go back to the shop and see if they can give you a better description of the postman and I will contact 5 to see if they know anything about the mysterious woman on the train. Any questions, comments, observations?’ He looked around the table. ‘Until tomorrow then. None of that should take long, so we’ll meet at 11.00. Hang on, before you go, did anyone see his cheque book? If it is not in his case or in his pockets, then whoever did this took it with them. Easy to put in a post-bag along with any bills that might have been lying on the floor. Those cheques were his identification so who has them now and for what purpose? Jim, just to make sure, can you ask the Doctor if he saw it anywhere? OK 11 tomorrow.’















CHAPTER 31
The following morning George rang Bill Laurie at MI5, now situated at Blenheim Palace, north of Oxford.
‘Morning George, it’s been a long time. How are things?’
George was wary of discussing details over an unsecure line so spoke in code just in case. 
I’m well thanks. I’m ringing on a personal matter. I have come into some money, a legacy from an old aunt, and I’m looking to invest it somewhere. Your company was suggested, so can we get together sometime to discuss the possibility.  I can come to your offices near Woodstock if that helps.’
Bill quickly understood the situation. ‘Glad to oblige. How soon? Can’t have money standing idle can we. Will tomorrow at noon be OK? How will you be travelling; do you want picking up at Oxford station?’
‘Noon will be fine, I’ll drive.’
‘Look forward to seeing you.’
Early the following morning, after Jim had contacted the local sorting office about the postman and had asked the doctor about the cheque book, both he and George were driven in an unmarked car out of London on the A40 to Oxford where they took the A44 towards Chipping Norton, reaching Blenheim Palace just after 11.30. They drove through the pillared gateway up a long drive, but as they reached the main house, they peeled off to the left and went down the side and around the back.  They knocked on a green painted door set into the wall and were greeted by a young lady dressed very conservatively.
‘Sorry we are a bit early, but we have an appointment with Wing Commander Laurie.’
‘You are expected sir. You may not be aware perhaps that Bill has been promoted since you last met. He is now a Group Captain.’
‘Dizzy heights indeed.’
Bill came to the doorway. ‘Morning George, thought I recognised your dulcet tones.’
‘Just been given the news. Congratulations on the promotion.’
‘Happened a while back now, but it won’t make any difference. Never hidden behind titles or ranks anyway. The only advantage is that when this is over, and they eventually get rid of me, my pension will be higher. Come into the office, it’s a bit different from the one we had in the Scrubs. 
George introduced Jim and then explained exactly what had been going on. 
‘I understand that we were given the job of following Edwards, as we now call him, by you. Is that right?’
‘It is, we had it on good authority that someone was going to enter the country on a specific mission, but we weren’t sure if it was anything more than a watch and wait exercise.  So that, and the fact that we didn’t really have the manpower to follow it through, put it more in your area than ours. You were quick to remember the Edwards name though, well spotted. That was introduced years ago when we asked you lot to keep an eye open for anyone passing those cheques, but we were never sure they would ever be used, so when it cropped up in your investigation it came as a surprise. 
‘Bill, before you go on, you should know that we found Edwards dead in the flat we followed him to in London. We are making all the necessary enquiries, but it may have some bearing on your case and, incidentally, the chequebook you mentioned is missing. Wasn’t in his cases, or on his person and the Doctor has confirmed that he didn’t see it lying round either. He certainly had it in the hotel in Penzance, so he could have lost it there or on the journey, but I doubt it, although I’ll get it checked anyway. That means, that someone else has it, presumably for identification purposes.’
‘Wow, I wasn’t expecting that although it does answer a question for me. He was expected to visit one of our contacts but the day after he arrived in London someone turned up in his place. We didn’t know at the time about his death, so this explains it. That’s very interesting about the cheques. I think you’re right. Whoever it is will be unlikely to use them for payment or getting cash, so ID seems the most likely reason.  It would seem that we have been working on the same operation from two different angles. Inadvertently, you’ve stumbled on one we set up almost ten years ago. When we handed this to you, we had no idea that they would coincide. 
It was only when you rang your office from Penzance, and it was picked up by one of our people, that we realised it precisely matched the method of entry that we had been given by our source. We asked your lot to send someone to Scilly, you as it happens, to observe just in case, not really thinking that anything would come of it because it was all a bit farfetched, but the use of the named chequebook took it to a different level, and we then became interested for other reasons.
George raised his eyebrows. ‘Yes, sorry George, we do monitor your phone calls, but like many others, I have to say. So, don’t be alarmed, you are not alone.’
When the name was flagged up, we made sure we got someone on that train, especially as you mentioned the other two people in the compartment and that Edwards had seemingly made a point of choosing the same one. You see we may have an interest in the other man.’ 
‘So that was the point of the note I was given. I thought it a bit odd at the time, but this explains it.’ 
‘Alison is very good isn’t she. What role was she taking this time?’
‘A flustered rambler who had rushed to catch the train. Strangely, nobody in the carriage seemed to take any notice of her despite her slightly dishevelled state. She left the train at Reading when the man got off. She made a very convincing impromptu departure.’
‘Yes, she would have done. She was to get off at any station along the line and follow him. I know precisely what’s she doing now. 
This shooting in London was certainly not something we had considered, and I suspect neither had you, so we are both in the dark. I think I need to fill you in our side of this operation. To cut a very long story short, and to put it simply, for a number of years, with the help of a couple of people in the Shires, we have been monitoring potential fifth columnists already in the country. That reminds me, I need to make a phone call to inform our contact about developments. 
Over time we have identified almost five hundred of them, some well-known and others not.  As yet, we have not made any arrests because they continue to lead us to others, but as the balance of the war has tipped towards us since Alamein, the numbers of active members have certainly fallen off so what we have left now are the hardcore. We don’t really understand their motives other than political, as in general they are not the type of people to take up arms, but they have been a nuisance. Until now of course. This latest incident puts a different slant on things. I think it is important that we now work together and pool information. I’ll give you my direct number, but only phone me under extreme circumstances because you may be overheard, although, thinking about it we could retain the pretence of our share dealings, at least in the short term. I cannot offer you anyone on the ground at the moment, but I can supply you with all the pertinent information.’
‘That would be very useful, and I will of course do the same. Can I ask where you are getting your tipoffs from?’
‘You can ask, but I won’t tell you. That is very much on a need to know basis, and sorry George, you don’t need to know. Let’s just say they are coming from someone very high up in the German hierarchy via the Polish Government in exile. Now how about lunch before you go back?’
After George left, Bill phoned Cynthia.
‘Hello, Cynthia, you had a visit from some of my team last week and one of the group told you about a Mr Edwards. Well, he won’t be coming. He was shot in London. Special Branch are now working with us on this. We have no idea who did it, but it certainly explains why it was Davies and not Edwards turning up at your house the other day, although everything pointed to him coming to you at some point. I’ll be in touch when I get more details. Bye for now. Thinking about it, Davies must have known when he was on the train what would happen to Edwards otherwise why take his place. We need to bear that in mind.’

When George returned for the afternoon briefing there were a few surprises waiting for him. 
‘Sir,’ said Bert, ‘I contacted both the electric and gas services as you asked and they both confirmed that supplies had been reinstated two weeks ago and the initial payments had been done beforehand. So that would suggest this has been planned well in advance. And there is something else. Jim, you had a call from the post-office. 
‘Yes, they were adamant there was no postal delivery scheduled for that day at the time we gave them. According to them, the deliveries would have been made long before that. They traced the postman on duty, and he confirmed he had finished by about 10.00 and was back in the sorting office by noon. 
‘And now,’ said Bert, ‘the icing on the cake.’ He paused deliberately before saying, ‘the Chief Inspector at St Johns got a good description of the postman from the beat bobby who said that whoever it was, they were wearing studs in their ears.’
‘Really, a woman?’ said George,’ that’s astonishing, I had never even considered that as a possibility. That changes things. Although she may be part of a bigger group, we could now be looking for a female assassin…who is still out there. 
Questions still remain though, why go to all the trouble of dropping Edwards off in such a clandestine way, arrange for him to come to London, and then kill him off almost immediately. Was this some sort of decoy plan and if so, is something happening elsewhere, or had he served a purpose and needed to be silenced. I’ll let Bill know immediately because this may have some bearing on his own operation. I’ll probably have to go to Blenheim again. Give it some thought and see if you can come up with any ideas. Excuse me a minute.’
He went to his office and rang Bill.
‘Hi Bill, with regards the share dealings we were discussing this morning. It would seem that this is more urgent than I first thought because of death duties and other things. Not something I can really discuss over the phone because you need to see the paperwork. Any chance we can meet?’
‘As it happens, I have to be at our old London office tomorrow, the one before our most recent, so see you there at about 11.00, subject to the trains being on time of course. There will be someone there to let you in if I’m delayed. I’ll bring a few investment ideas with me. See you then. Bye.’  
George was able to work that out. In 1934 MI5 had moved from their premises in Cromwell Rd, to Thames House on Millbank, before going to Wormwood Scrubs in 1939 for a year. So, Thames House at 11.00. Top floor of the South Block if he remembered correctly.
He returned to the briefing room.  ‘Bert, could you contact the Long Boat Inn in Penzance and Great Western lost property to see if anyone found a Martins Bank cheque book in the name of T.G.Edwards and let me know as soon as possible, thanks?’





















CHAPTER 32
Bill was already in the office when George arrived.
‘Morning Bill. I’ve got some information that may have a bearing on your operation as well as ours. According to the Constable covering that area, the postman, who we’ve identified as being the only person who entered the building, was in fact a woman. Unfortunately, we have no detailed description beyond the fact that she was of medium height and had studs in her ears, so not a lot to go on. The locals from St Johns have done some house to house enquiries but got nothing, beyond the fact that she continued to deliver post further down the road. A very good disguise, because who takes notice of a postman doing their job. Nobody saw her once she got to Gloucester Place. For all we know there could have been a car waiting for her around the corner, and as it’s a main road she could easily have got away. She could even have walked back to the Edgeware Rd and left via the A5.  At present, her role in this is entirely circumstantial. Even though we know she could have been involved, we have no direct evidence.  However, I had a thought on our way here. There has been a woman tangled up in this from the very beginning who we have completely disregarded. What about the one who was in the same compartment with me on the train. Alison took an interest in the man on your instructions, Jim and I followed Edwards. So, was the woman an innocent bystander who just happened to be in that compartment or were all three of them in it together. My gut reaction says the latter.’
George started walking around the office talking it through to himself and ignoring the others. ‘Let’s go back to the beginning and look at this again. The train at Penzance was almost empty so there were plenty of places to sit, they were both on the train before Edwards arrived, and we know that he was apparently searching for a specific carriage. Thinking about it, there were already two cases identical to Edwards on the luggage rack and he had placed his next to them. When we found them in his room, they did not contain a radio or anything else suspicious as we were led to believe, only books in one to give the impression of weight and clothes in the other. We know that the switch was likely to have happened in the Box tunnel when it went dark for a couple of minutes. For someone to have gone to the trouble of packing the case with books suggests that this was well-ordered and pre-planned. Jim and I were too intent on watching Edwards, so we did not see either of the others struggling with a heavy case. Although, hang on.’ He turned to Jim. ‘Wasn’t there a porter carrying a case for a lady further along the platform, when you went into the Ticket Office.’
‘Sorry, George, can’t be sure of that. I was concentrating on Edwards. There could have been.’
‘But why could that be significant George?’ asked Bill.
‘Well, if I’m right, why was the case so heavy for her at Penzance that she required the help of a porter, but light enough for her to take it off the rack and refuse any help at Goring. It had to be that the case she was carrying then did not contain the books. So, what was in it. A radio or something else. I don’t think it was a radio, because that would also be heavy, so whatever it was it had to be lighter.
I think we’ve been looking at this from the wrong angle. Edwards was simply a decoy, a highly elaborate one it must be said, but all our attention has been on him, Bill you had information about the other man Davies, but we all ignored the woman.  We need to find her.’
‘OK’, said Bill, ‘let’s go along with your theory, because at present we don’t have much else. But if it has been so well planned the question of Why still remains. Whoever they are have tapped into contacts in Germany in order to get Edwards here. They also knew that we would be informed that he was coming and by what route. They would realise that we would have taken an interest albeit in our case a cursory one, because of the source, hence the need to confuse us with seemingly non-descript extras at Penzance, I’ll explain our interest in Davies in a minute.  Cases are exchanged and Edwards is shot because he simply becomes surplus to requirements and needs to be kept quiet. All very plausible, but where do we go from here. It still comes back to Why. Our interest in the other man comes from the operation I told you about at Blenheim, about the fifth columnists. We had no idea where he was until you alerted us at Penzance. We know precisely where he is now, but we are still watching him. He is using the name Young. We need to get someone to Goring to make some enquiries about the woman. The trail may be cold, but it’s a start. I want this between us, not the local police. This is clearly a security matter, and a serious one considering the lengths to which they’ve gone in covering their tracks, so the fewer who know the better. Can you send a team to Goring and I will sort out my contacts and Alison? This building is probably being watched, so let’s keep in regular communication by phone using the investment ruse, and I’ll think of somewhere obscure where we can meet if we have to. I’m not sure that this is the best place, because you are known. Are you alright with that?’
‘All makes sense. I presume I can leave messages with your secretary.’
‘Yes. We also need to consider very carefully about what their focus is. Disruption, political agitation or something more serious. We’ll get both our teams to think out of the box and come up with some ideas. The other problem is that we have no idea of a possible time scale. Should we expect something sooner rather than later. I’m better placed to get the intelligence reports, so I’ll have to arrange clearance so you can see them as well. Jim, you’ve been very quiet. Do you have anything to add?’
‘No, I think it’s a good plan of action. I’ll get some of the lads down to Goring as soon as I get back. They can start tomorrow.’
‘Well, that seems a good place to conclude. Just one point, if they are ruthless enough to kill one of their own, watch you back.’



















CHAPTER 33
As it happened Young, as he was still calling himself, didn’t stay long. Cynthia still could not understand why he had not recognised her. It had been some years ago, but she wouldn’t have changed that much. She invited him indoors and took him into the lounge. As she did so, the doorbell rang.
‘Hello, Cynthia. Thought I would surprise you and pop in for coffee. I’ve just got the bus from Reading and thought I’d see how you were. How’re things? Oh, by the way, Bill sends his regards.’ Alison said in a louder than usual voice. 
‘Hi, Sarah,’ said Cynthia plucking a name out of the air. ‘Great to see you. I’m very well thanks, but I’m really sorry, I’ve got someone with me the moment, so I am not sure when I’ll be free. Do you want to call back later or can you give me a second to get my diary and we’ll fix a date and meet somewhere?  It’s such a shame you’ve come all this way for a wasted journey.’
‘Never mind. My own fault. Let’s make a date and then I’ll get out of your way and go for a walk before catching the bus back.’
Cynthia made a point of going for her diary and taking it to Alison. ‘How about next Tuesday?’ Do you want to come here, or shall we meet somewhere else?’
‘Tuesday would be good. If you let me have your phone number, I’ll call you to arrange a place. I’m really sorry to have disturbed you but good to have had a quick chat. Until Tuesday then. Oh, phone number.’
‘Cynthia wrote down her number and passed it across. As she did so, Alison jotted four words on an adjacent pad…’I’m outside if needed,’
‘Many thanks, see you next week.’
She turned and retraced her steps and walked towards the shop.
Cynthia returned to the lounge.
‘Sorry about that, an old friend from school out this way for a walk. Now, how can I help you. I don’t even know your name?’
‘Young,’ your ladyship.
‘Oh, I was expecting a Mr Edwards.’
‘Yes, sorry about that. He will be delayed. It’s a shame we did not talk before your friend arrived, because I am not staying long, and you could have had your coffee with her.’
‘Oh, please forgive me. I’ve not offered you anything. Would you like tea of coffee?’
‘Very kind, but no thanks. I understand from my colleagues that you can be trusted, and I have been instructed to leave this suitcase here if I may. It will be collected by someone else, but I have no idea who that will be or when. There is nothing suspicious inside, it’s not a bomb or anything,’ he smiled, ‘but I’ve no idea what it contains. Will that be alright?’
‘Of course. Leave it there and I’ll put it in the study later. Will the person collecting it have any form of identification?’
‘Not that I know of. They will simply arrive. The suitcase in itself is a form of ID.’
‘Good point. Whoever comes, is going to know that it’s here.’
‘I’ll take my leave then.’ He looked at his watch. ‘If I’m quick I should be able to get the next bus back. A pleasure meeting you,’ he said shaking her hand.
‘Likewise. We may meet again sometime.’
‘Perhaps,’ he said and left to catch the bus.
As far as Cynthia was concerned all the elements were coming together and beginning to make sense, the warning phone call from Louise, the urgent meeting with Snowden and the arrival of Davies…who wasn’t Young, or even Edwards. ‘What next?’ she pondered.

Alison had been waiting around the corner for his exit. She too would get on the same bus but would leave it until the last minute.  As it happened, they were the only ones on it for the first few stops and typically British, they made a point of ignoring each other. When they arrived in Reading, they both made their way to the hotel. Alison would really have liked to have explored a little, but she needed to keep an eye on Young. She wasn’t sure whether she would have to stay another night, but when Young went up to his room, she took the opportunity of collecting her things and returning to the foyer just in case she had to move quickly. It was an hour before she saw him coming down the stairs again with no baggage because the case had been handed over. He stood by the door and waited until a small car pulled up in front of the hotel on the other side of the road. He walked across, got in the back and was driven away. 
Alison had done as much as she could and there was no way she could follow him, even in a taxi. She resisted the temptation of looking around the town and so having already paid her bill the night before, she picked up her bag, returned to the station to collect her rucksack and stick from left luggage, bought a single ticket and walked under the subway to catch the next train to London. 

While Young and Alison were travelling back to Reading, Cynthia phoned Bill and explained what had happened. 
‘Intriguing,’ said Bill ‘this is all getting very complicated. I think you and I need to get together with George and talk over various options. Can you come up to London with Richard on his usual commute one morning? It will look less suspicious than if you came alone. I can gather the teams together and go over this again. I do know that George is making enquiries about the lady on the train, so we may have more to report on. I don’t want you to come to the office in case you’re followed. Can you come on Tuesday for 11.30 as you’ve already made a fictitious arrangement with ‘Sarah’ as you know her?’ Dame Myra Hess will be giving one of her lunchtime concerts at the National Gallery. Get there early to join the queue as a normal concert goer, but when you get into the building turn immediately left. We will have someone there looking out for you. There is a meeting room off the main entrance which we sometimes use. If anyone is watching they may assume that you are visiting the toilets which are down the same corridor. 
‘I’ll see you there then. I presume Richard goes to work as normal.’
‘Yes, everything as standard. Just take the underground rather than a taxi. You’ll have someone with you.’















CHAPTER 34
Enquiries in the Goring area had proved fruitless. The station staff could not remember anything, and as one pointed out, there were a lot of grey-haired old ladies in the area using the trains and carrying bags or cases, so it was nothing unusual to see them. The station was also on the edge of the village so didn’t get much passing traffic with casual observers. They would have to think again.
The investigations now centred on the Why. 

Cynthia travelled up to London on the Tuesday with Richard. The train was surprisingly crowded, and they had to stand in the corridor until they were able to get a seat when some people left at Reading. 
Seeing Cynthia’s reaction Richard commented, ‘This is usual, but you get used to it. Are we coming back together, or shall I see you at home?’
‘I’m not sure how long the meeting will go on for.’
‘I’ll get back my usual time. If you are earlier, take the car and pick me up later. If I’m home first, I’ll collect you. Phone from the call box.
When they reached Paddington, Richard went through the ticket gates straight ahead to the Circle Line while Cynthia peeled off towards the Bakerloo. As she crossed the concourse, she heard someone call her name. She turned to her left to see Alison waving to her. 
‘Hi Cynthia,’ she said, and then quietly, ‘as we had already arranged to meet, I have been sent to collect you. Act normally, you’ve been followed since you left the train. We have some time to kill, so let’s have that coffee anyway.’
They went into the underground, took the escalator down to the Bakerloo Line and turned right onto the south-bound platform. On the way Alison formally introduced herself.
‘I’m Alison, not Sarah, but excellent improvisation the other day. You might like to know that I followed him back to the hotel, but then lost him when he later got into a car.’ 
A blast of air swept into the station indicating the arrival of the train. They alighted at Charing Cross and instead of going straight to the National Gallery, they went onto the Strand and into the Lyons Corner house, followed by their tail.
‘I always think it strange that tea is rationed, yet coffee isn’t.’ remarked Alison, ‘especially when we are a nation of tea drinkers. Perhaps that’s it, we are drinking too much tea,’ she smiled.
This sparked a conversation about what constitutes a good coffee, and both agreed that they could cope with anything except Camp coffee, a dark brown syrupy liquid which contained far more chicory extract than it did coffee and came in a bottle. They both shuddered amusingly at the thought. 
‘These concerts by Dame Myra are very popular, so we will have to line up with the other patrons. As we are being followed, we can’t really jump the queue, but we should be able to lose him once we are inside. Someone is taking a keen interest in you all of a sudden. He can’t be the only one, so I’ll play the game of spotting the others. I have to say, this one behind us is not very good at it.’ 
‘I had the same treatment some years ago when I was first approached by the group. They weren’t very good then either. Spent days sitting in the same car being observed by our post-mistress. They were looking to see who I contacted and whether or not I was genuine in wanting to help them. I think recent events must have sparked their interest again. Can I play the game as well?’
‘Feel free. Who do you think?’
‘The man with the newspaper and pipe by the door?’
‘No, he was here when we arrived. He wouldn’t have known that we would come in here. Have another go. There is one who is fairly obvious and very close to us.’
Cynthia looked around, but all she could see was a well-dressed lady repeatedly leaning down to feed her dog titbits under the table.  Cynthia surreptitiously nodded in her direction.
‘Correct,’ said Alison ‘She’s bending down to the dog to listen to us. Watch what you say. We’ll see if they both leave when we do.’
After a time spent in small talk, they paid their bill, left the building and walked towards Trafalgar Square, followed independently by both their watchers.   Acknowledging Nelson perched high on his column Cynthia looked sideways at Alison and simply said ‘I wonder what he thinks of the present situation?’
‘Not a lot I would have thought. At least he’s survived the bombing,’ she smiled and set off across to the north side of the line which was long and extended around the corner into Charing Cross Road. They could no longer see the lady with the dog, but their other minder waited awhile and joined about six places back. After the doors opened, they shuffled alongside the exterior wall, up the steps and into the building nodding to the man regulating the queue. Alison glanced behind them and seeing a gap, tapped Cynthia on the arm and immediately turned left. She paused just a moment to make sure they had not been seen and watched as the man following them went straight ahead and up the stone steps.
Slightly disappointed about missing the concert, they walked further along the corridor to the meeting room. 
























CHAPTER 35 
The meeting room was full of smoke, presumably a testament to a lot of intense thinking before they had arrived Cynthia thought. 
‘Welcome, sorry about the smoke!’ said Bill, waving his arms in a vain attempt at wafting some of it away. ‘Grab a coffee and I’ll introduce you to the others.’
He went around presenting them in turn. ‘This is George and Jim from Special Branch. They did the trailing from Penzance. Bert, he found Edwards body. Hannah, Jane and Alison you know, and you have met Felicity at the office. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Lady Cynthia Childreth, our help in the shires who I have told you about,’ he smiled and collected his cup and sat at the table.
Cynthia acknowledged them all as George, Jim and Bert shook her hand.
‘Let’s get down to business. We have this room for as long as we need it and we won’t be thrown out when the concert concludes, however when we finish, we will have to leave separately from the various other entrances so that we’re not seen together. 
There are a number of issues we need to consider. I don’t need to remind you that what we are about to discuss is highly confidential. I’ll list them and we can then take them in turn. Felicity will take notes and distribute them later. First, what is this all about? Second, what is the time scale? Third, why is Cynthia’s role important to them? Anything else?’ He looked at everyone in turn. 
‘OK, let’s start with the why. Why the elaborate planning, not only in getting Edwards into the country to then eliminate him, but also setting up Cynthia over the past years, which we were partly responsible for of course.’
‘Whatever it is, it has to be important enough to go to such lengths,’ reflected George. ‘This has obviously been planned for years, not necessarily this specific task but the opportunity to carry out some act of terrorism. Cynthia, if I may address you as such your Ladyship, has been a sleeper now for many years. I can’t believe her inaction to this point is simply due to them assessing her allegiance to their cause.’
‘Please call me what you like George, I answer to anything.’ Cynthia smiled and added some levity to the proceedings. ‘Something to remember, is that at no time until very recently have I been given any specific instructions. All I have is a well locked suitcase in my office. I am simply to wait again, but for what reason I have no idea. The parties were supposed to be a recruiting exercise, but not sure how successful they were, and the arrival of Mosley at the last party was a piece of theatre. He had no need to come to ask me about my willingness to help out, as he had already been told by the others, and he could easily have had a conversation over the phone. Yet he was eager to accept our invitation, I say our, because it was Bill’s idea. Perhaps the intention was to show himself to Gerda and the others to demonstrate that there was a National Socialist presence in the country. Despite our fears, at no time did he use the occasion to make any political statements, he simply went around the groups chatting. It was all very much underplayed. I think the fact that he simply drifted away at the end of the evening was significant. If I can offer my own, perhaps amateurish opinion, I don’t think he has anything to do with what is about to happen.’
‘You could be right,’ said Bill, ‘he made no attempt to contact the others after the party, or since he has been released. Like you, I would have thought that he would have taken some action or made contact by now if he was involved. At the party he just wanted to be certain of a safe house if needed. At least we know that much.’
‘Let’s go back. What do we think their target or targets are? They’re not intending to report back to Germany because there was no radio, despite the information to the contrary, which in itself is suggestive, for instance is there another agent in the country we haven’t as yet identified, who has a radio already here. Personally, I don’t think that’s possible because we rounded them all up at the beginning of the war, but it’s worth bearing in mind. If we assume that there is no means of communication, it can’t have anything to do with relaying tactical, or strategic information, so what are we left with?’
‘Basic terrorism, a bombing for instance,’ suggested George.
‘What about assassination or kidnap?’ proposed Jim. 
‘Both worth bearing in mind. A bomb would require access to materials, and I am not sure that any of those we know have the skills to make one. Assassination, kidnapping is worth considering. They have already carried out the killing of Edwards, so they are not averse to it. But I am not sure what they would gain by setting up a kidnap. Who would they hold to ransom and for what purpose?  I think we can discard that. For now, let’s go with assassination. Call out likely targets.’
Suggestions came from all around the table. The Royals, Churchill, the Cabinet, Military Commanders…
‘No pressure then,’ Bill smiled. ‘There would be a public backlash if the Royals were taken out. It would be counter-productive, except in the terms of morale, unless of course they wanted to put something or someone else in their place, but that would still require a lot of backing and the support of the people, which they wouldn’t get. There are not that many republicans in the country and certainly only a very few who would want a dictatorship.  The someone else could have been Mosley a few years ago, but unlikely now. Churchill?’
‘Possible,’ said Hannah, ‘but he is well protected, and nobody outside of his immediate circle is ever sure of his movements. Even some of his radio broadcasts are done by his voice double so he can be somewhere else.’
‘Cabinet Ministers. Eden, but who would want to dispatch the Foreign Secretary? Atlee, I doubt it. Although he is in the Cabinet, he tends to concentrate on Home affairs rather than war strategy. Beaverbrook? He’s Lord Privy Seal so outside of the Cabinet. Can’t really think of him being a likely target can you.’ He looked around the table at shaking heads. So, that leaves us military commanders. This is an awful thing to say, but who do we have worthy of assassination?’
‘I would have thought we need to look at those at the centre of strategic planning,’ said George. ‘We have to narrow the list down, so I think we can ignore the RAF and the Navy hierarchy as I would suggest that although there will be the need for air cover and naval support, the main focus in the war from now on will be on land forces. So, shall we take out Dowding and Harris, unless there is a revenge element behind this, and Mountbatten. Portal has just died.’
‘Makes sense. So, who does that leave us with and where are they, or expected to be in the near future?’
‘No idea where they’ll be but we would need to check on Alan Brooke as CIGS, Eisenhower, Monty, Auchinleck and Alexander. Wavell can come off the list as he is in India as Viceroy so presumably, he will remain there. So, that’s leaves us with just five. What do you think? We are making a big assumption here, but I think it is worth the risk. We can keep a watch on the others and liaise with Churchill’s personal protection which comes under our remit.’
‘In the meantime,’ interrupted Bill, ‘I’ll make sure the Household Cavalry maintain extra vigilance on the Royals. I might also have a word with Jimmy Coats who was in charge of their protection until a couple of years ago until he handed over responsibility to the Composite Regiment.
If we are happy with that, we need to do some research. Hannah, can you take Ike and Monty; Jane, Brooke and Auchinleck, and Alison, Alexander. We need to know where they are likely to be in the next few months other than with their regiments. For instance, will they be attending any civil events, or dinners or the like?  If you come up against any high-level security issues refer them to me. I don’t know about anyone else, but I have a gut feeling that this has something to do with Monty and Ike. We need to work fast on this, so we’ll meet at my office in 48 hours. Cynthia, you will be very welcome, but you don’t need to attend. We will keep you informed on a need to know basis. I suggest that your role is remaining in contact with the group. The less you are seen with us, the less likely that they will suspect anything.’
‘I’m more than happy with that. I cannot contribute to your planning, so will let you know as soon as any happens at my end. However, I am a little concerned about the extra interest they seem to be taking in my movements. It is rather disconcerting.’
‘Don’t worry, we’ll have that covered. I’ll put a few more people in your area. If there are any problems, just call, anytime. There will always be someone at the other end who can contact me.’
‘What do I do about the suitcase?’
‘Good point, I’d forgotten about that. I’ll send Edwin down on some pretext. He is good with locks and can get into it without anyone ever realising that it has been opened. Felicity, can you organise that for tomorrow if possible.’ He looked at Cynthia, ‘will you be in?’
‘Yes, but if I have to go out Mary will be there. She is up to date and knows Edwin.’
‘Good. So, ladies and gentlemen, is there anything else anyone would like to add?  Bert, you’ve not said anything. Are you OK with this?’
‘Absolutely sir, I’ll take my orders from George and Jim anyway, so no problem.’
‘Fine, now we cannot leave together so stay here for a second.’
He left the room and returned with the security official who had been at the top of the steps when Cynthia and Alison had arrived. ‘Andy is one of ours and knows this building well. He will take you to the various exits and make sure that you leave securely and separately. Safe journey home.’
All but Bill and George followed Andy through the building, they continued their discussions for a little longer to allow the others time to leave. Hannah, Alison and Bert left at intervals via Charing Cross Road and Jane, Cynthia and Jim onto Pall Mall. They went their own separate ways without acknowledgment. Cynthia, concerned that she might still be watched, immediately hailed a passing taxi and returned to Paddington. It was only then that she was spotted by the same young man who had been in the coffee shop earlier in the day and was now standing against the bookstall. He calmly folded his newspaper and followed her onto the Newbury train. When the train stopped at Theale, she alighted and he continued, obviously satisfied that he knew where she was going. As the car had gone, she rang Richard from the phone box, and he came to collect her as arranged.
‘You look all in,’ he said, ‘are you OK?’
‘It has been an intense afternoon and I think I was followed again.’
‘Did anyone else get off here?’
‘No,’
‘In that case maybe it’s your imagination. I think you could do with a stiff drink.’

When the man reached Newbury station, he made a phone call giving no name.
‘Not sure what to make of this but I lost her in the National Gallery, and she was not in the room listening to the music. There was no point in waiting because she could have gone anywhere, so I waited at Paddington and picked her up on her return journey. She got off at Theale as expected.  I couldn’t really follow her as I would have been the only other person getting off, and anyway, I knew where she was going. I just can’t account for the three hours in between. I think we need to put a bigger team on her. I’ll ring again tomorrow for further instructions.’ 
‘No hang on a second. I can give you an answer now.’
At the other end the recipient of the call turned to his companion. 
‘She is now at home, but he lost her for three hours. The suggestion is that we increase her surveillance. What do you think?’
‘Good idea, you deal with it. But make it a little less obvious this time. No cars parked in the road.’
‘We agree. Get someone into the village tomorrow morning, but make sure they are less evident this time.’
‘Will do,’ came the reply before ringing off.





CHAPTER 36
The following day Edwin arrived at the house driving a small Morris van with Painter and Decorator emblazoned on the side. Cynthia had just gone across to the shop, so Mary took him into the office and left him with the suitcase.
Cynthia returned a couple of minutes later with news from Gladys. 
‘Mary are you there?’ she called from the back door.
‘Whose is the van outside, can’t remember requiring any painting done?’
‘That’s Edwin. He’s in the office unlocking the case.’
‘News from Gladys. There have been two people in the shop this morning asking after me. A lady dressed as a walker and a man on a bicycle.  They arrived independently but asked where I lived and if I was at home today. I’m sure they were not from Bill, because he would have told us, but I can always check with Edwin.’
Edwin called from the office. ‘Cynthia, Mary, can you come here please, you might be interested in this?’
The opened case lay on the floor in front of them.
Edwin smiled. ‘Not a difficult lock to pick. Take a look at the contents.’
The case contained no books, no radio, no bomb making equipment, just an assortment of lady’s clothes. ‘What an anti-climax,’ commented Cynthia, ’I have to be honest I was expecting something a little more exciting or clandestine.’
‘Can I have a closer look, or do we need to keep it as it is?’
‘You can, but just be careful.’
She removed one or two items from the top to reveal blouses, skirts, cardigans, and a bag of toiletries. 
‘This is a bag packed for going away and notice, the labels have been removed.’
‘From the sizes, can you work out how big this woman would be?’
She carefully lifted one of the cardigans and spread it out on the table. 
‘About that size,’ she joked. ‘No seriously, I would have thought 5 foot 6 or 7. Do you agree Mary? It’s not that big. Shame there are no shoes to give us a better indication. Raises interesting questions though doesn’t it. Why did Davies leave it here and who is going to collect it?’
‘I’ll just lock this up again and let Bill know about the contents when I get back. Could you fold the cardigan back as it was please?’ He passed it over to her.
‘Why don’t you ring him from upstairs. I want to speak to him as well.’
Edwin relocked the case and put his lock pick back into his pocket and then joined Cynthia in the bedroom as she was dialling Bill’s number.
‘Morning Bill, Edwin would like a word in a second, but can I ask if you’ve sent any of your protection officers down here this morning. Gladys saw a couple of strangers earlier, so I just wanted to check?’
‘No, nothing to do with us. Take care, it must be the opposition. I’ll have someone there this afternoon but as usual, neither you nor Gladys will notice them,’ he laughed.
‘I wouldn’t bet on that. She can spot a stranger from half a mile. Here’s Edwin, ‘bye.’
Edwin explained about the contents of the case.
‘Interesting,’ said Bill. ‘Make sure that nobody will know that you’ve opened it, and then can you stay with Cynthia until I get someone else on site this afternoon. Take a paintbrush or something out of the van and make yourself useful,’ he sniggered and rang off.
Edwin chuckled and rather than a brush, went off to pick up a cup of coffee. 
Bill rang back after lunch and spoke to Mary. ‘Just to let you know that our people are in place, two of them, so can you tell Edwin he can stand down and drive back.’ 
Edwin left and both Cynthia and Mary took the opportunity to walk around the village for no purpose other than to see if they could spot them; something to relieve the boredom. He was right. Apart from one lady who had set up an easel and was sketching the pub and an elderly man laying flowers on a stone in the churchyard, nobody else sprang out. ‘Unlikely to be them,’ Mary commented, ‘too old.’
There was no sign of either the walker or the cyclist

On Thursday, the team, minus Cynthia and Bert, gathered in Bill’s office. 
‘Coffee will be here shortly. OK, what have we found since Tuesday? Let’s go around the table. Jane?’
‘Well Alan Brooke as Chief of the General Staff is based in the War Office and spends a lot of time in the Cabinet War rooms, and is driven to his flat in Whitehall Gardens, so apart from the odd leave in Hampshire he is in London. A possible. Auchinleck is presently in India, so unlikely.’
‘Alison?’
‘Alexander is involved in the Italian campaign, so again unlikely.
‘Hannah?’
‘Montgomery is in London with 21st Army Group and SHAEF in Norfolk House in St James Square, and by all accounts Eisenhower will be there from January, so that could put both of them in the frame.’
‘So, if we are prepared to go down this route, we are left with three possible targets. I am not sure that Brooke leaves London much and anyway is protected, but Ike and Monty do. They both like meeting their troops. He looked at George. ‘I realise it might be difficult for security reasons, but is it possible to find out about their movements over the next few months?’
‘I’ll make some enquiries and get back to you, although it might take time. What are we looking for exactly?’
‘Any event where they are either in the public eye, or doing a troop inspection, or overseeing an exercise. Anywhere which makes them potentially vulnerable. Incidentally, just for the record I contacted Jimmy Coates and the present officer commanding Household Regiment, and they’ve both assured me the security around the Royal family is very tight. 
Since we met on Tuesday, we have had another unusual development. I sent Edwin to unlock the case that was left with Cynthia. Any guesses as to what it contained? No?’ he paused, ‘lady’s clothes. Nothing else. Now, on the surface that might seem to be strange and rather bizarre, but it has to fit into the scheme of things somewhere. So, bear it in mind.’
The coffee arrived and they took a short break. 
‘George, any more news on the Edwards murder?’
‘No progress at all. None of the cheques have been used and, as we know, the trail at Goring went cold. Nobody can recall the lady or the car that was waiting for her.’
‘Don’t you think it’s significant that everything seems to come back to this mysterious lady,’ suggested Jim. ‘She was on the train and we didn’t take any notice of her, and she wasn’t seen when she got off.  But we do know that it was a woman who entered Edwards flat as the postman, and women’s clothes have been left with Cynthia. As well as thinking about the potential targets, perhaps we ought to consider the women we already know of who could be behind this. Remember Cynthia did say some time ago that she felt the most enthusiastic and fervent members of the group were the wives, and not the husbands. We can ignore the German ladies, because they cannot leave the country, so that leaves Marjorie Snowden, Louise Harrington and Megan Davies. It might simply be a shot in the dark and they could all be totally innocent, but I think we ought to concentrate on them, at least until we can be certain that they have no part to play.’ He looked at George. ‘What do you think?’
‘Well it can’t do any harm. We don’t have any other leads. It has to have something to do with the group because they have been ever present throughout this whole thing. I’m not sure we know where they live so I’ll get someone onto it when we get back to the office.’ 
‘Thanks for that suggestion Jim,’ said Bill.
He looked around at everybody. ‘While Cynthia isn’t here you ought to know that I now have serious concerns for her personal safety. She wasn’t seen leaving the Gallery on Tuesday, but one of our agents saw her being tailed from Paddington. Not much to go on, medium height, brown hat and coat, carrying a newspaper. He got on the train with her. Also, there have been reports, from our new secret agent Gladys in the shop, who we must recruit when all this is over,’ he smiled, ‘that there have been more strangers in the village.  I’ve sent a couple of our people to watch. One is a competent artist who can sit with a pad and paints anywhere and will not be noticed, the other is a very good at becoming an old man. Neither would warrant a second look. They both live locally and will be in contact if anything untoward or suspicious happens. Everything now seems to be concentrated on her house. As we have said before, it’s large, isolated and has reasonable communications except in winter of course. But why? We are no nearer knowing what’s behind it. If anyone else has any suggestions, however silly and insignificant they might seem, let me know. Does anyone else have anything to say now?’
‘No? Alright, we have two strands to follow. George, you concentrate on the ladies. I will give you some extra manpower, but can’t let you have our dynamic trio here,’ looking at Jane, Hannah and Alison, ‘because they’re known. I want them to get the information about our potential targets. OK?’ he glanced over them. 
‘We’ll divide them up between us. We may have to come to you George if we come up with any bureaucratic issues. How long have we got?’ she questioned. 
‘It’s Thursday now. The four of us are in the building so we can liaise at any time, so may I suggest George that you and Jim join us on Monday unless you come up with something before then. In the meantime, I’m going to increase the security around Cynthia. I would like to get someone inside the house but can’t as yet find an excuse to do so. If you have any thoughts let me know. Whoever is watching her will be aware of the comings and goings, so we can’t make anything too obvious. Until Monday then. Felicity, can I have the notes by lunchtime please. Thanks’




























CHAPTER 37
It was easier than they thought to get the ladies addresses, because they had overlooked the fact that Mary had written to them all with invitations to the party. As it happened, they all lived reasonably close together in three separate villages, and significantly not far from Goring station which in a way made identification of the train lady a little more difficult. All three had access to cars because they had driven to Denleigh and the parties so it could have been any one of them, if at all. That thought still remained an option.
George rang Bill with the addresses. 
‘Sorry Bill, they had been staring me in the face all the time. I’d forgotten about the invitations so got them off Mary this morning. I’ll get people in place today or tomorrow, but it will have to be planned carefully because they all live in small communities. Like Cynthia’s village, any strangers will be spotted easily, especially if they’ve got a Gladys as well.  Need some time on this. Can you send me some help over later so I can brief them at the same time as my team?’
‘Look, on another matter entirely, there is something that is really nagging me about these women and it’s very annoying. It may be important or simply a red herring, but I can’t put my finger on it or get it out of my mind. I have this feeling there is a link between either something someone said or what they had seen. It may go back some way, even to your original meeting with Cynthia. Can you please give it some thought, just for the sake of my sanity?’ he chuckled.

‘Will do. I’ll have a word with Cynthia as well. While you’re there can I run something past you before our meeting on Monday? If we are going to concentrate on these three, let’s not dismiss the husbands outright. We know Davies impersonated Young, and Edwin has told me that Snowden was not as drunk as he seemed at the party, so he is obviously putting on an act for a reason. The enigma is Harrington, he has been in the background and really hasn’t entered the frame, apart from appearing at the Adlon Hotel some years back when we were told he didn’t travel. I am almost convinced they are all involved either wittingly or unwittingly, but we need to create a response and may bring them out of the shadows a little more. I was thinking that if we asked Cynthia to ring Richard at work on the open line, expressing concern that she thought she was being watched, they might react in a way which would at least give us an indication that they are actually involved. What do you reckon?’
‘If she’s willing and it doesn’t compromise her safety, it’s worth a try.’
‘In which case I’ll call her later, and also ask her about your nagging thoughts. I’ve yet to hear from the girls about the Generals, but its early days yet. I’ll see you Monday, unless anything significant happens over the weekend.’
He called Cynthia and explained the plan they had in mind and also asked her to recall anything from her meetings with the group. 
‘Richard will need to be in on this, so his reaction when he gets your call should be one of surprise and disbelief. So far whoever is in control, has assumed that because you have not reacted you have not noticed the tails. If your concerns are picked up by whoever is listening to your phone, the fact that some or all may be withdrawn will show us that they are definitely involved in some way. Of course, the watchers may simply be replaced, but that doesn’t matter. We need to them to show themselves. Are you happy with that? You need to brief Richard first, so no point in making the call today, leave it until early next week. We have a meeting here on Monday, but I don’t think they will react before then even you ring early, so do it on Tuesday and see what happens. I’ll also tell our people who are already there to keep a look out as well. Spotted them yet?’
‘Nobody stands out, and Gladys hasn’t said anything.’
‘That’s how it should be. Give me a call if and when anything happens. Have a good weekend.’

At the Monday meeting Bill outlined the plan to the others. 
‘Cynthia will ring tomorrow and then let me know.’ He looked at George, ‘I also asked her to think back to the Denleigh weekend to see if there was anything of significance she had seen or heard bearing in mind what we now know. Actually, Jane and Hannah could think about it as well. It’s a long time ago now, but there may be something lurking in the backs of minds, mine included.’ 
‘OK, ladies, what have you found?’
‘Nothing at all about Brooke,’ said Hannah, ‘his appointment diaries are kept by his Military assistants and his ADC. He follows a very tight schedule, mostly Army related first thing in the morning and then a series of meetings with the other Chiefs of Staff, which he chairs, and the war cabinet. Often the latter goes on well into the night, depending on the agenda and Churchill’s mood. He then gets driven home to his flat in Whitehall Gardens until he’s picked up in the morning. If he goes to any receptions he is always driven.’
‘What about the others?’
‘There may be some potential here. Ike and Monty, together with Air Marshall Tedder and General Wimberley are due to visit the 51st Highland Division sometime in early February, not sure of the date. However, we do know that Monty and General Crocker are inspecting the same Division and presenting medals on the 13th February, a Sunday, in Aylesbury.’ 
‘I found out something else, which could be important,’ said Alison. ‘Were you aware that for the past few months an American transport detachment have been constructing a series of concrete loading areas on Bucklebury Common. There is now a temporary army camp there, and as it’s a no-go area and you can’t go across the common, it can’t have gone unnoticed. We’ve never travelled further than Cynthia’s house so we wouldn’t have seen it. Do you want me to check it out? Could be only a coincidence that Cynthia lives a few hundred yards away, or it could be of significance. Leave it with me and I’ll try to get some information by this afternoon.’
‘Yes, follow that up. I can’t believe that it could be a target, and it’s apparently not secret, but as you say, might be part of the bigger picture. Let’s have a break and resume in 15 minutes. I just want to check something with these addresses.’
While the others broke out for coffee, Bill went into an adjacent map room and after consulting a chart on the wall pulled one out from a drawer. It was large scale map which covered the mid-Berks region, including the three villages where the ladies lived. He took it back to the meeting room and spread it on the table. Take a look at this.’ He pointed at the three locations. ‘Here we have the Harringtons, indicating Aldworth, the Snowdens at Ashampstead, and the Davies’ here at Yattendon.  All very close to each other and to Cynthia. George, I take your point about the problems observing them, especially the Snowdens, as their house faces the playing fields and is very open. Now, this may sound rather silly but bear with me. Do we have any more artists in our teams?’
There was a look of surprise around the room. 
‘I know, daft question, but think about it. Artists always seem to go unnoticed and not only that, they are often spoken to by complete strangers because they are interested in what they’re painting. We already have the one near Cynthia, who incidentally has not been spotted, even by Gladys, which in a way proves my point, so we could place another on the field opposite the Snowdens, and in the little square here at Yattendon. We’ll have to come up with something else for the Harringtons, because they live outside the village centre.’
‘I suppose that could work,’ George replied, ‘I’ll make some enquiries when I get back.’
‘Right,’ said Bill, ‘I’ll leave that with you. Alison can you follow up on the camp and Hannah, Jane, divide this up as you like, but I want as much information as you can muster on the visits to the 51st Division.  As we still have no idea of time scale, we’ll meet again on Friday. By then there might have been a response to Cynthia’s phone call. Have fun!’
After lunch Alison reported back regarding the army camp on the common. 
‘I can’t find a great deal apart from a few newspaper cuttings. The army were not giving anything away. They described it as a relocation centre. But, as I said earlier, it’s known about locally, in fact the villagers are invited to the camp cinema. I did find out that it’s camouflaged from the air, so must be of some importance.’ She and Bill came to the conclusion, that although it was something to bear in mind, it was not necessarily pivotal to the investigation.’
Later in the day, George rang. ‘Got an artist for you. Came as a complete surprise it’s Bert. By all accounts he is a very competent watercolourist. Never took him for the artistic sort.’
‘I’ve got one as well. Macmillan, one of the guys we sent down to Cynthia.  He’s more of a pencil sketcher. The only thing that concerns me is that he might be recognised, so he will have to disguise himself, but as we said who looks at artists? I’ll get him to come over to you tomorrow morning, so you can brief him with the others. You know the routine. They may need to develop some way of recording comings and goings without being obvious. See you Friday.’









CHAPTER 38 
Having discussed it with Richard, Cynthia phoned him late on Tuesday morning when he had got into the office. It was a basic conversation, but her voice was deliberately tense, and his suitably calming.
‘Richard, sorry to disturb you at work, but I think I’m being followed. There seems to be someone watching the house, and when Mary and I went for a walk earlier there was someone behind us.’ 
‘I wouldn’t worry. Probably your imagination. Why would anyone want to watch you, and who would they be? However, saying that, it might be worth just keeping an eye out.’
‘Alright. As you say it may be nothing, but I have a strange sense of being watched. I’ll see you this evening.’
That was all that was needed; however, Cynthia did take the precaution of asking Gladys to let her know if she saw anything suspicious. 

While Cynthia was making the call, George was briefing his team. Bill wasn’t there, but Jane attended in case there were procedural matters that needed clarifying. 
There were eight men and four women in the room as he had decided to get them into teams of four. He felt that the situation demanded more manpower, and some of the personnel were ‘on loan’ from Bill.
He spent time going over the background and the need to observe the three couples and explained the specific roles of Bert and Keith, the one constant in two of the teams.
‘We don’t know how long this will go on for, so we may have to change you all around in a few days, or alternatively, you might have to adopt many disguises,’ he smiled. ‘Basically, we need to know who they meet, do the three see each other and how regularly? We want to determine if there is a pattern and establish whether or not it’s the same people who are involved. This has to be active observation; I don’t want any of you sitting in a car. It’s too obvious and as all the locations are in small villages you, or the vehicle will be seen.  The only static ones among you will be our artists,’ he glanced across the room. Bert, I suggest that you set up on the field almost directly opposite the Snowden’s house, a suitable distance away of course. They live in a row of cottages, so the focus of your painting will be easy to explain should you need to.
Keith, the Davies’ live on a very small square in Yattendon. Apart from the pub, shop and a butcher there is not much more so you will need to be very cautious. However, if you choose your spot carefully, you will be able to see the cottage and the two roads leading out of the village at the far end. I’ll show you on the map later. Aldworth is going to be a little more difficult. The artist scenario could work again, if we decide to move you around, but the village is bit more spread out. At the centre there’s a small square with the pub and shop, but it is very enclosed. I’ll leave it to you to develop your own strategies once you are on site. Divide the time up amongst yourselves, but we need to make sure we cover the evenings as well as the day. Each of the locations has a phone box, so you need only send in a daily report unless something significant happens. I have to say, that this may lead to nothing, but we are working with 5 on this, so it has a high priority. Jane, would you like to add anything?’
‘I don’t have to tell you how to do your job, but it is absolutely vital that you remain as invisible as possible in your roles. None of the villages are on direct transport routes, so each team will have a car, which will change every other day. Make sure it’s parked out of sight.’
‘Are there any questions?’
‘What happens if we are approached,’ asked Bert.
‘Not a problem in your case, or Keith’s, as you can talk about your painting. Feel free to offer to sell it to them,’ she smiled.
‘There are bound to be questions later, so get back to me if you need to. What I would like you to do now is have a look as these maps, so you know the area and then read the descriptions of your targets. Unfortunately, we don’t have any photos, but you’ll soon get to know them.  We’ll have tomorrow to get the logistics in place, but I would like you to sort out your own timings for a start on Thursday. I’ll make sure that cars will be available for you from 06.00.
Incidentally, Keith, Bert, if it rains you can always decamp to the Royal Oak in Yattendon, or the shelter on the field in Ashamsptead. Both have views of the relevant cottages. I’m around the rest of the day if you need me. Jane, I presume you will let Bill know what we’re doing.’
She nodded in agreement. ‘Good luck everybody.’

On Thursday all the observers were in place. Bert, seated on a small folding picnic chair, had erected a small easel on the playing field as Jane suggested. His paints and brushes were lined up on an adjacent table, together with a flask of water and an as yet empty jar. Keith had done the same in Yattendon, choosing a place against the fence by the butchers giving him a view of all the village, from the Blacksmiths on his immediate left, a small lane accessing the square, the shop, pub and the two rows of private houses. Although he usually sketched, he was working in oils to make his role more authentic. All the groups had decided among themselves to work in pairs, and apart from Keith and Bert, move villages every two days, so cutting down the chance of being spotted. For the first day there was little to see, none of the targets left their houses, not even to go to the shop, so their task was easy. Both Keith and Bert enjoyed doing their paintings on the ‘firms’ time. It was on Friday that they had some interest. Mid-morning Marjorie Snowden sauntered nonchalantly across the field towards Bert. She actually walked past him for a few paces before returning, giving the impression that she hadn’t noticed him first time. She peered over Bert’s shoulder.
‘That’s a very good interpretation of our row of cottages. Are you painting them for a purpose, or just for fun?’
Bert dropped into his cover story. ‘The latter really. Since Dunkirk I use art as a form of therapy, so I like to come out into the countryside and paint whatever takes my fancy. Do you mind if I ask an impertinent question?’
‘Depends what it is,’ replied Marjorie with a smile.
‘Do you own that green car in front of your cottage. If so, do you think you could move it a bit further down the road. It doesn’t quite go with the house,’ he smiled.
She looked back at her own home, ‘I see what you mean. It is ours, but I can’t drive so I’ll get my husband to do something when he gets back. How long will it take you to finish it?’
‘Might be a few days as I want to do some other pictures around the green. The church looks good from this angle, and the big house over there with the leaded windows is interesting.’
‘When you’ve finished this one, let me know. I might want to buy it off you.’ 
Bert smiled. ‘Will do.’        
No-one took any notice of Keith in Yattendon.  Nobody had entered or left the house, but he did notice that the shop was very much the centre of the community with a steady stream of patrons. As some came out with no purchases, he assumed that it was also the centre of the local gossip.   
Mike Robbin’s team in Aldworth experienced the same, although Bob had been seen going to The Bell at lunchtime and taking his car out later in the afternoon, but only for about 40 minutes.          
In the meantime, after the phone call, Cynthia had not noticed any of the watchers taking an interest in the house. She made a casual enquiry with Gladys, who commented on the fact that apart from the lady artist who appeared early every morning, and the elderly gentleman who sometimes walked through the village from the church in the afternoon, she had not seen any strangers, adding the rider that of course she could not be certain.
Although she felt a little better about the situation, Cynthia still felt that something would happen soon.




















CHAPTER 39 
The case was taken down from the top of the wardrobe and carefully put on the table. It was opened to reveal a German FG42 7.92 selective fire automatic rifle designed specifically for paratroopers. However, when fitted with a ZF4 telescopic sight it made an excellent sniper weapon in the hands of a skilled marksman. It was fitted with a box magazine which could contain 10 or 20 rounds, had all the firepower of a light machine gun and was considered to be one of the most advanced weapons in the war. There was nothing else like it in the world, certainly not in Britain, hence the need to go to such lengths to smuggle one into the country. If the hit was successful, it would have been well worth all the effort. Alongside the gun there were four boxes of ammunition together with a bi pod to provide more stability when used prone, and a folded canvas bag which made it easier to carry. 
It was taken out of its paper wrapping, degreased and cleaned thoroughly, all the components parts reverently laid out on a cloth. Once reassembled and checked, it was now time to practice.
Fortunately, they were not far from an official army range, as this was not something you could fire in the garden or a local field. They would have to choose their time carefully as they needed light and the days were getting shorter. The pair had done their homework and driven onto the Berkshire Downs a few times, to observe through binoculars the movements at the Churn ranges, established as a private facility at the beginning of the century and then commandeered later by the British Army. For an army range the security was unusually lax because no weapons were left on the site, so it consisted of only a chain-link gate fixed by a lock. There was a small building used by the range officer, but other than that it was empty. They had noticed that it was very busy at weekends and for some reason on a Wednesday afternoon, which they later found out was when it was used by Cadets from local public schools. The best times were Tuesdays and Thursdays, not only because there were fewer people, but for some reason the range officer left early. Nobody lived in the vicinity so no-one would question any extra rifle fire as it was a common occurrence. 
There was no real hurry, but it was important that they both got acquainted with the weapon as soon as possible and they were both keen to try it out. 
The following Thursday they drove onto the Downs again, but careful not to leave their car in view they walked the last mile along the Ridgeway, an ancient trackway, over the bridge of the Compton to Didcot railway, then diagonally across the fields to the range. Once there is was very easy to pick the lock and walk in. One of them stayed at the firing point, while the other walked alongside the range to the butts about five hundred yards away, where there were targets already set up. Their job was to indicate the hits, using pointers which were square black painted pieces of metal on the end of a long pole, so that the rifle could be calibrated by the firer. They were both aware that they could not afford to waste too much ammunition, so they took their time. Swapping over after 10 rounds and making an accurate note of their individual settings. Satisfied that they could easily hit a target at that range with pinpoint accuracy, they retrieved the spent cartridges, retraced their steps back to the car, went home and cleaned the rifle. Nobody was any the wiser. 



























CHAPTER 40
By the end of the evening, George had received calls from all the teams and had taken notes which had then been passed onto Bill. Apart from Marjorie’s chat with Bert and Harrington’s short car ride there was nothing much to say. Although the latter did create a change of plan in that they realised that their own cars, even out of sight, should be close by so that they could follow if the need arose, which inadvertently provided a rather humorous scenario when all the teams converged in the same area at the same time when the Harringtons and Davies had gone to the Snowdens for Saturday lunch.
When they reported in that evening it was decided to move them around. From Sunday Bert would take his easel to Aldworth, Keith would go to Ashampstead, but in a different location as two people painting the same view might have raised suspicions, and Mike’s team went to Yattendon.
As there was lack of progress, George postponed the Friday meeting until the Wednesday of the following week but arranged to meet with Bill that Saturday evening at the Admiral Duncan, a small pub in Soho. 
‘Nothing has come out of these observations so far. I’ve given it until Wednesday, but unless we get something soon, it would seem to be a waste of manpower which could be focused elsewhere. I’m also concerned that the longer we leave them in place, the more likely our teams will be noticed. Thinking about it, a better option might have been to have tapped their phones, something we could still do I suppose, but I’m not sure if we would get the opportunity. Apart from the lunch today, they’ve not been in physical contact with each other. What’s your view?’
‘I agree entirely. The one bright spot is that Cynthia’s call to Richard has drawn away her watchers, and as far as she can tell, they haven’t been replaced.  By Wednesday’s meeting we will have had almost a week of reports. I would suggest that if there is nothing significant, we withdraw the teams and think of something else. Presumably we still have no leads on the Edwards shooting.’
‘No, we seem to have hit a dead end on both fronts. One thing we did check on was the postal uniform, but none had been reported missing.’
‘We will get the results of Alison’s research on Wednesday, but I think we should concentrate our efforts on the troop inspection in February. As I said before, my gut feeling is that this all centres on Ike and Monty. Think out of the box a minute. Germany is expecting an invasion of Europe at some point, hence all the defensive work that Rommel is doing on the Atlantic wall. They know it’s coming, but they don’t know where or when. The point of this whole scheme has not been to find the answers to either of those questions, otherwise Edwards would have brought in a radio to report back. So, what would be the next best option?’
George pondered over his beer for a moment. 
‘Take out the planners?’
‘Precisely. The operational plans can only have been in the hands of a selected few and even then, on a need to know basis. We’ve listed them before and dismissed some of them as potential targets because many of the senior officers in other services would have strategic, but subsidiary roles. They would be concentrating and planning their individual contributions. However, in my reckoning there are still only four who have an overview of the whole operation; Churchill, Alan Brooke, Monty and Ike. The latter are the ones who are working on the ground, so to speak, so let’s concentrate on them. We know of their official movements over the next few months which means that anyone seeking them out would have access to the same information, so we need to make sure that we are notified immediately if either of them decide to do something on the spur of the moment where they may not have the protection normally given to them. Let’s see what we have on Wednesday, but in the meantime let’s both use our contacts to give us advance notice of any ad hoc visits or meetings.’

On Wednesday, the three team leaders, and the usual members, met in the meeting room down the corridor from George’s office. All sat in a smoke-filled haze with a mug of tea or coffee in front of them.
‘OK, where have we got to?’ enquired George. ‘Alison?’
‘Well, I can confirm that Monty will be at the Aylesbury camp on the 13th February. Despite our concerns for his safety, his staff were not giving much away and weren’t really interested in helping much. I got the impression that they considered they had everything in hand and did not need any external help, even from us. All I have got were the timings. He is due to arrive at 11 for the inspection, medal award ceremony and march past, then he is having lunch in the Officers Mess at 13.00. He will be driven there and back by his usual driver, John Burford, in a closed car. That’s all I know. This is four months away, so everything could change, but I think we should focus our resources on this, at least until we find it’s a non-starter, or something else happens. If the three couples are involved in some way, they are not in a hurry, or so it seems.’
‘Bill and I met on Friday and came to the same conclusion.’ George went on to explain their reasoning, and then turned to the team leaders.
‘Apart from the nightly reports, have you anything to add?’
Keith and Mike shook their heads. 
‘There was one advantage to being there,’ said Bert, ‘I sold the painting.’ He smiled, and seeing the response of the others ‘OK, I’ll buy the drinks next time.’
George looked at them, ‘I suggest that under the circumstances except those watching Cynthia we stand the teams down until such time that we might need them again. Happy with that.’
They all nodded their assent.
‘OK, let’s pool what we’ve got. I know I had the reports but think very carefully. Was there anything else that struck a chord, anything at all?’
‘Well there were a couple of things,’ said Bert. ‘We know from what she admitted that Marjorie Snowden can’t drive. Also, their car is green. Wasn’t it a green car outside Cynthia’s? I can’t be sure it’s the same make and model, but it seems a bit of a coincidence.’
‘Good point, well spotted. And it then follows that we also know that none of the suspects were in the car outside the house. They were two men who Cynthia had never seen before. That means either the Snowdens don’t own the car and it just happened to be parked outside their house, or they loaned it out. We have always said that there must be people on the periphery of this who can be called upon to do the leg work. 
‘I presume we don’t have the colour of any car that may have been involved with Edwards killing. Would be very convenient if that was green as well,’ questioned Bill.
‘No such luck,’ George replied, ‘but we could do with some. It would be very useful if we could see a link between what’s happening now, and the London incident.’
‘Anything else?’
‘It’s a long shot but there is something we could look at,’ said Mike. ‘We reported that Harrington left his house last Thursday. We hadn’t been there long, so didn’t really take much notice. He drove away for about 40 minutes, that’s 20 minutes each way. We know from the others that he didn’t visit the Davies or Snowdens, so, if we say he averaged 25 miles an hour around the lanes he could have gone about 8 or 9 miles away from the house. Of course, that does not allow for any stops he might have made, so would it be worth drawing a circle on a map with Aldworth at the centre and see what’s inside it? May be nothing of interest at all, but as we have little else to go on, it could give us something. Do you want me to give it a try?’
‘Good idea,’ said Bill, ‘I’m the one with all the maps, so come back with me after the meeting and we’ll find a suitable one. Any other comments?’
Keith chipped in, ‘Again it may be nothing but is it significant that apart from Harrington in his car, and Marjorie buying Bert’s painting, we did not see any of the others throughout the week apart from their gathering together for lunch. Which begs the questions were they somewhere else, or had they realised we were there? They couldn’t have gone out without us seeing them. For what’s it’s worth, unfortunately I think some of us were spotted. Mike did say that they saw Harrington going into the pub at lunchtime which could easily have been a way of looking out for any new arrivals like us.  That would then account for them not leaving their houses and risking giving anything away. Although they must have had well-stocked larders as they didn’t even go to the shop. Mike did say that he had not really taken any notice of Harrington driving away. It was late in the afternoon so light was fading, so he may have taken the opportunity to leave and do something quickly before all the watchers were in place and might notice him. Any of them could then have told the others by phone. Also, the fact that they all arrived at the same time for Saturday lunch with the Snowdens could have been another way to see if they were being followed. I suspect it didn’t help when two cars turned up almost simultaneously.’ 
‘OK,’ said Bill, ‘Amazing isn’t it how we can remember things when we have to concentrate. Excellent, that gives us a few things to consider. The map might also help. As far as we know they have not contacted Cynthia yet. I think we should pre-empt that. I am going to ask Cynthia to invite them all for drinks or something and see what happens. She can do it on the pretext of wanting to know when her services might be required. They don’t know about Keith or Mike, so they could go along as well with their wives, as long-lost relatives or such like. I think we need to be proactive. Talking of which, if we have finished here, Mike and I will go and search for a suitable map.’


CHAPTER 41. 
Bert drove Mike back to his office and took a one-inch to one-mile map of the area from the chart cabinet. Using Mike’s earlier estimation, they drew an eight-inch circle with Aldworth at the centre with another one at 5 inches to allow for any stoppages he may have made. 
‘So, what do we have?  It looks as though he could have gone to Compton, Hampstead Norreys, Streatley, Bradfield and all the little settlements in between. The other two houses are in the circle, but we already know he didn’t go there, and I can’t imagine him simply driving to visit another small shop so there has to be another reason.  Let’s get a larger scale to see if there is anything else of interest apart from churches and pubs. He extracted a couple of 2.5-inch scale maps which together covered the area of the larger circle. They scanned one each.
After a couple of minutes, Mike, pointing at a specific spot said simply, ‘Now that’s very interesting. Take a look at what I’ve found, Army rifle ranges at Churn.’
Bill came across. ‘He could have easily got there within the time. He only needed to turn left out of the house turn right here,’ indicating a junction with four exits, ‘driven along the road to Compton and up onto the track near the Ridgeway. If that was his destination, he would have needed to have walked the last half-mile or so, but it would have doable in the time. I cannot see anything else of interest on these can you? Well spotted.’ He looked at his watch. ‘It’s too late now because it will be dark by the time you get there, but first thing tomorrow go with Keith and have a look at what’s around. Dress as walkers, otherwise you’ll stick out like a sore thumb. Take some photos if you can, I wouldn’t think its classed as secret, and have a close look at the exit and entry points to see how easy it might be to get in. Perhaps this is the lucky break George wanted. I’ll give him a call. On second thoughts I’ll drive you back and talk to him instead.’

‘Me again George,’ he said as he entered his office. ‘We may have the break we were looking for.’ He then went on to explain the proximity of the range. ‘I hope you don’t mind but I’ve asked Mike and Keith to have look tomorrow. If we are focusing on the possibility of an assassination attempt this could be a likely link, but let’s not be too optimistic until we have explored all the options. In light of this I’m not sure now if we need to arrange the tea party. Let’s leave it and wait for them to contact Cynthia. I’ll call her and bring her up to date.’
‘Fine with me,’ said George. ‘Can you ask her again about any thoughts from her weekend at Denleigh? I know it’s years ago, but there might be something.’
‘Will do. Can you come over to me late tomorrow afternoon? We should have some news by then.’
He returned to his office to ring Cynthia. 
‘If we are correct and this was his destination, then things could either be happening soon, or they are going for February. We still need more evidence that this is their plan. I’m concerned that we don’t have anything concrete as yet. It’s all too circumstantial, we can’t even directly link the intentions of all the people in the train carriage. If we take them at face value as George saw them then, what do an enemy agent, Edwards, a grey-haired lady doing her knitting, unknown, and an academic looking gentleman, who we now know as Young or Davies, have in common apart from similar suitcases. Perhaps it will drop into place soon. I presume Richard has heard nothing about the cheques being used. That would be too much to ask. Any way I’ll stay in touch and keep you up to date.’
‘No, he’s said nothing about the cheques, and he has had junior colleagues looking out for them. I think they’ve been destroyed, but I’ll let you know if one appears anywhere. Bye for now.’
Cynthia, put the receiver down and made her way out into the garden. The temperature was rather fresh, and she wished she had put on an extra jumper. She suddenly stopped in her tracks, returned to the bedroom and rang Bill.’
‘Can you remember how you described the people in the carriage just now?’ 
‘Um, an enemy agent, a man using an assumed name, and a grey-haired lady knitting.’
‘That’s it. That could be the link.’
‘What could?’
‘Bill, think back. Who did we see at Denleigh knitting in the garden? Who did I see at the Adlon with knitting? From my experience, once a knitter always a knitter. Like the postman, who takes any notice of someone sitting in the corner of a train carriage knitting. If my guess is right, our grey-haired lady could be Louise. Also, she doesn’t live far from Goring station.’
‘Wow, well there’s a thought. Thanks for that but keep it to yourself for the time being. I’ll get onto George right now. Keep safe.’
What Cynthia could not have noticed, was that someone with binoculars, was taking great interest in the back of her house from across the fields. 

‘George, we are on a roll. Are you sitting down? Cynthia may have come up with the link that’s been nagging you. Ready for this?’
‘Bill, don’t keep me in suspense, I’m not really in the mood for games.’
‘Alright. Knitting, and nothing to do with the nickname we gave the German ladies.’
‘Knitting? How is that important?’
Bill went on to explain Cynthia’s reasoning.
‘Well I’ll be. That could put a whole new perspective on things. We’ll keep to the original plan of having the meeting tomorrow, but we’ll put this on the agenda as well.’

As Bill put the phone down Hannah came into the office.
‘Have you seen this?’ She placed a copy of the Daily Mail opened at page three on his desk with the headline;
‘Monty to make goodwill visits to Army Bases before Xmas’
Lt. General Bernard Montgomery will be making a series of morale boosting goodwill visits to various army bases across England before Christmas. His itinerary has not been released, but we are reliably informed that it will include those of our allies based in this country…….’
‘Oh no, this has made things much more complicated. I cannot believe that this has gone into the national press, but I suppose we’re fortunate that there’s not too much detail. Could be anytime in the next eight weeks. I’ll put this onto the agenda tomorrow and discuss it then. Might be a long meeting. I’ll get onto the MoD and try to get that itinerary.’
’










CHAPTER 42
It took a lot of phone hopping between various offices and some persuasion before Bill managed to get a list of Monty’s visits sent over to him for the following day. Even though he was informed that it was incomplete it did at least give him a time frame. They were all to take place sometime during the weeks of Mon 6th to Fri 17th December but would depend very much on other events. From Bill’s perspective there were two locations which stood out from the rest, the American Military Hospital at Hermitage and the American Transport Division, on Bucklebury Common, both within the circles.
There was plenty to talk about at the meeting and the usual team members were present.
‘Afternoon everybody. We have a few important issues to discuss that have really only come to light over the past couple of days. First, you might have seen the newspaper reports of Monty’s proposed visits to various army bases before Christmas. I managed to get a draft list of possible locations, but it would seem to me that at present, there are only two which could be significant to us, in view of what we now know. 
Things are beginning to work out, but it is mainly still conjecture. Thanks to Cynthia’s memory and George’s persistent internal nagging we are almost certain that the little grey-haired lady on the train was Louise Harrington. The clue for Cynthia, was the knitting. She was seen with it at Denleigh, at the Adlon in Berlin, and of course on the train. That puts her in the frame.
For those of you who were not with us before, from Mike’s reckoning from the time taken, we have calculated that when Bob Harrington left the house, he could have travelled a distance of 8 miles at an average speed of 25 mph. We drew a circle on a map centred on Aldworth and came across an interesting location, the Army ranges at Churn. Mike and Keith have been there this morning, so over to you.’ He nodded across the table. 
Referring to his notes, Mike spoke for the both of them. 
‘To check all possibilities, we started from the centre of the village and followed a route that Bill and I had worked out on the map yesterday. There and back, with time for a recce was about 45 minutes, which was in the time we allowed ourselves. Now the interesting bit. Once we had got to the other side of Compton, we went up Churn Road and then onto a dirt byway. We were able to drive reasonably close because we could follow what is a basically a sheep track to the railway station at Churn Halt which coincidentally reopened in March of this year. It’s on the Didcot to Southampton line but there is nothing much there except a single platform and a wooden shelter and very basic toilets. When the military took over the running of the ranges and had summer camps in the area, this was the only way of getting access to them. We left the car there and walked a couple of hundred yards across the field. The security was almost non-existent, just chain link fencing with a basic lock. Typical range layout, shooting area pointing towards a series of target lines rising on the slight slope to the north. Whoever is looking after the site is not doing a very good job. There were enough spent shells left lying around for some Army range officers I know to go apoplectic, but as it happened this lack of care turned out to be helpful. We collected a few .303 rounds from a typical Lee Enfield rifle, but among them was an odd one, a 7.92mm. which would imply that someone had been there firing non-standard ammunition from a foreign weapon. 7.92 is certainly not a British calibre. The fact that we only found one would suggest that whoever this person was had carefully removed all the spent cartridges, but inadvertently missed it. 
There’s nothing more to add really. We’ve only just got back so haven’t had time to check what the weapon could have been, unless someone here has any ideas.’
‘Thanks Mike.’ Bill scanned the group. ‘Has anyone got any thoughts?’  No? In that case Mike, could you check after the meeting and get back to me as soon as possible? Try Jacobs downstairs in our armoury, he might be able to help. In fact, why don’t you see him now to save time.’
While Mike was out of the room Bill summed up. We now know that Louise Harrington is involved in some way. Bob Harrington could have driven to the range and back, but we have no evidence of that, in fact the shell could have been left by anyone who knew the existence of the ranges, and finally, they have made no contact with Cynthia since the suitcase arrived. Of course, we have assumed that it was Bob Harrington and not Louise driving the car. Mike only mentioned the car, not the driver.
We also know that we now have three possible locations where an assassination attempt could be made, two in a couple of weeks and one in February. Have I missed anything?’
No,’ said George, but I would like to recommend that we concentrate on the December visits, then if nothing happens, we can always fall back to the 13th February. Can I also suggest that as there have been no developments in the Edwards murder, that we leave that to the locals at St Johns and pull our people out to supplement our teams here. Unless we get a specific date, we are going to have to cover Hermitage and Bucklebury over a period of almost two weeks. That will be difficult to manage without extra help especially as we also need to keep watch on Cynthia.’
At that point Mike returned.
‘Jacobs is reasonably certain that this shell comes from a German paratrooper rifle the FG 42. However, according to him, fitted with a good sight and a bipod, it can easily be adapted to become an efficient sniper’s rifle.’
‘Now, that does make it interesting. Almost confirms what we have thought all along, this has all been set up to hide a killing. Jim, can you get hold of Monty’s ADC and inform him of these latest developments. He needs to be aware, and at the same time, ask him to make himself available for our next meeting the day after tomorrow, if he is able to of course.  Let’s break for a cup of tea and a smoke and reconvene in ten minutes.’

While everyone else took the opportunity to stretch their legs, Bill started drawing up a list on the pad in front of him, which he was able to explain when they returned.
‘I’m going to allocate each of you a specific area of responsibility and progress in each will be shared at our meetings. You all realise that there is now a great deal of urgency attached to this, so I am only going to give you 48 hours. All this information needs to be gathered and collated quickly so we can react immediately to whatever might happen. 
Let’s break this down. It is more important now that we keep a close watch on the three couples. He looked across at Bert, Keith and Mike. I am going to withdraw all the present teams and replace you with others who would not yet have been seen. George, on your recommendation, we’ll use some of the London group. Bert, can you oversee that please and make sure all the new teams are briefed and have cars. I won’t change the ones near Cynthia, because they are locals and known as such?’
‘Will do.’
‘Hannah and Jane. I would like you to get everything you can on the American Hospital at Hermitage, security, access points, visiting times and lines of sight. The latter is really important. A visit would be useful if you have the time, because you might find that it would be very difficult to get a clear shot at any target.’
‘Keith and Mike, I would like you to do the same for the Transport base. Same criteria.’
‘Alison, I have realised how we can get someone inside Cynthia’s house. After this meeting I am going to get her to ring you at home on her open line inviting you down to spend a few days before Christmas if you are able to, and of course you are. I presume she has your number, if not let me have it and I’ll pass it on. In case you are seen arriving take on the role of Sarah which I understand Davies or Young knows you as. You’ve already been spotted together in London anyway, so they’re unlikely to think it suspicious.  Your job is to be Cynthia’s and Richard’s minder. I would like you to draw a weapon from Jacobs. Get his advice on what is best. It needs to have stopping power so a small handbag .22 pistol will not be enough. Can you be there tomorrow morning? You might like to take a car as well, rather than use the train and bus again. Bert will organise it when he sorts out the others.
I want everything ready to go by 10.00 tomorrow so I apologise for what could be a late night. As before the observers report back every evening but this time to you Bert as overall team leader. Those doing the paperwork research can bring us all up to date in two days. George, Jim and I will coordinate from here and let you know of any immediate developments that might have a bearing. While you are all doing that, I am going to do some checking into their backgrounds, especially the Harringtons. Any questions?’ he looked around the table, ‘OK., off you go and good luck. Bert, please let me know when all the observers are in place.’
















CHAPTER 43
The rest of the day was very hectic, but it meant that by mid-morning on the following day all the teams were in place. Bert had briefed all the groups, worked out rotas to maintain complete surveillance, and provided cover stories should they be challenged. With the support of the local services, some would be in overalls working on the telephone cables, some as road workers mending the potholes and others scattered around the villages being ‘normal.’  George had arranged for the local police to carry on with the investigation into Edwards death which freed up members of his team so giving Bert more manpower. George dispatched a courier with all the relevant paperwork over to St Johns where the local Chief Inspector was delighted to take over, especially as he had always felt it should have been his case in the first place. 
Immediately after the meeting Bill had contacted Cynthia on the secure phone, explained the situation, and asked her to phone Alison straightaway on the open line to arrange a visit. So, anyone watching the house would have seen her arrive not long after breakfast in a small cream coloured car, remove a bag from the back seat and knock on the door. As agreed, she was greeted as Sarah with a couple of air-kisses on the cheek. Once inside she became more business-like.
‘Not sure how much Bill has told you, but things could be reaching a conclusion and we want to make sure you’re safe.’ 
Mary joined them carrying a tray of coffee and stayed for the discussion.
‘It’s important that you carry on as normal. Do your usual walks, visits to the shops and other things that you do. Don’t look for anyone trailing you, because we all know that they are there and only reporting back to someone. They’ve made no move to approach you, and anyway we still have people watching them.
They don’t seem to be interested at all in Richard, I presume he is commuting to London every day or is he staying up there?’
‘He comes home each evening at about seven, unless the trains are not running in which case, he stays in a small apartment owned by the bank. 
‘I would really appreciate a quick tour of the whole house so I can get some idea of what’s here. Is that possible?’ Alison enquired.
‘Of course,’ said Mary ‘I’ll show you to your room and then give you the grand tour.’
‘Alison, please treat this as home from home. Mary will show you where everything is, including the tea and coffee so help yourself at any time.’
Having shown Alison to her room Mary suggested that they started upstairs and worked down. 
‘Along this corridor we have four bedrooms. The one at the end is Cynthia’s and Richard’s. It is almost the whole end of the house and the huge window gives them a wonderful view over the fields. This one is mine, and then there is the guest bedroom which you’ve seen, and the final one is now used as a study. The bathroom is tucked into the corner. There are more rooms above us. Would you like to see those?’
‘She please, if it’s not too much trouble.’
They climbed another flight of stairs to the next floor, which was an exact match to the one they had been on; four rooms and another bathroom. 
Mary explained that some of the rooms were extra bedrooms and others used for storage. Halfway along there was another set of stairs.
‘Where do they go?’
‘Onto the roof,’ said Mary, ‘I’ll show you.’ After climbing ten steps they entered a room surrounded by glass. ‘Cynthia’s Mother was a keen painter and used this as a studio, hence all the glass. If you go through that door there,’ she said pointing to one in the corner, ‘you can go outside onto the roof. It’s perfectly safe if you want to see.’
Alison stepped out onto a large white flat area which provided an astonishing panoramic vista. 
‘Wow, this is amazing,’ she said. ‘Let me get my bearings, we are now facing directly south, is that right.’
‘Yes,’ said Mary. ‘If you go in that direction,’ pointing straight ahead, ‘you will eventually get to the coast. Where all those trees are over there to the right is Bucklebury Common and then further on Thatcham and Newbury, and to the left you have Reading. Down there you can see the road from Bradfield through the Avenue. She turned around. ‘And this way you would go north.  Great isn’t it. I’m surprised we don’t use it more, especially the studio, although it does get rather cold in the winter and it’s like a greenhouse in the sun.’
‘Is it always kept unlocked?’ asked Alison.
‘Yes, because the only way up here is through the house, and as there are no children around nobody really bothers about securing it. You’ll notice that we are surrounded by trees which are still short enough to offer a view, but when they get bigger this room and space will be of limited use, unless you really wanted to get away on your own. Tempting as it seems, few of us do. Perhaps I should take up art,’ she chuckled. ‘Shall we go back down now?’
Alison stood for a few moments longer before joining Mary at the steps. The rest of the tour took in all the ground floor, dining room, drawing room, lounge, library, kitchen and various storerooms for food and utensils. ‘There is also a cellar which Richard uses for his wine and where Cynthia overwinters some of her plants. It has a separate entrance from the garden,’ she paused. ‘Is that OK or is there something specific you would like to see again?’
‘No, thanks very much. That gives me a really good idea of what’s here. 
They returned to the lounge and joined Cynthia. 
‘Like it?’ she asked. ‘I inherited this from my parents and it really is too large for the three of us, but it has always been home, so I won’t ever part with it. We tend to live in here and in the kitchen usually unless we have guests.’
‘It’s fabulous. I particularly liked the studio. Shame you don’t get to use it much.’
‘Mary probably explained, its either too draughty in winter or too hot in the summer. But it’s a great view from up there.’ 

Bill had spent the morning gathering information on the three couples while Felicity had been making phone calls to all parts of the country on his behalf. He turned to Jim and George. ‘I cannot understand why I never did this before. The only excuse I can make is I always believed they were interested amateurs being used by a more authoritative figure and so of no particular threat, but that doesn’t seem to be the case does it. I thought that by using Cynthia’s parties and her willingness to join them, we would get to the next level. But we never did, in hindsight it has always remained with them. Even Mosley’s appearance at the last party was a token gesture. That will teach me to make assumptions. My mistake.’
‘I wouldn’t chastise yourself too much,’ said George, ‘from the information we were working with we all thought that Edwards was the main threat and we had things in place to deal with that. However, we still need to remember that they could still be just outspoken members of their class expounding the virtues of right-wing politics.  They’re not the first and they will certainly not be the last. We still don’t have any real concrete evidence. We can’t really make a case on knitting needles and identical suitcases. It’s now a case of doing the background checks and waiting for them, or others, to make a move.  The advantage we have, is that we are one step ahead. Although they may be looking for evidence that we may be watching them, they are unaware that we’ve made some connections. We are doing all we can at present.’
‘I agree,’ said Jim ‘let’s wait and see what the others say at the next meeting.’
‘Incidentally,’ said Bill, ‘I’ve asked Alison to phone us rather than drive back. Now she is in the house and I want her to stay there. Bringing her back here could compromise her cover. Right, let’s see what we can find.’ 

The following evening all except Alison were back in the conference room. 
‘Alison will be ringing in five minutes, so we’ll start then if we may. Once she has reported I’ll go around the table as usual.’
They did not have to wait long, and Alison explained what she had seen to Bill, who then relayed it to the others.
‘I’ve come across something very interesting here. There is a room at the very top of the house, could almost be described as a small observatory, it was used by Cynthia’s mother as an artist’s studio and it has glass on all sides. The significant thing is that because the windows open this in itself provides a 360-degree view across the whole area including Bucklebury Common and the routes onto it and into the village, however,  in addition, there is a door which leads out onto a flat roof, offering the same view. 
I’m now thinking that the Harringtons and the others are actually more interested in the house rather than Cynthia herself. The German couple could easily have come across the tower when they stayed overnight at the party and passed the information on to the others. If we are assuming that we are dealing with an assassin, all he or she would have to do is gain access to the house. I’ve checked and as well as the front and back doors, there are those in the conservatory and one leading from the garden into the cellar. All are locked at night, except the one into the tower room. The roof would make an excellent firing platform as one could lie prone and still see everything.’
‘Excellent Alison, that’s worth noting. Anything else to add?’
‘Only to say that there are three people in the house every night except when Richard can’t get back because of train problems and he stays in town.’
‘Good. I’ll bring you up to date with the rest of the meeting later. Probably tomorrow as we may finish late. Many thanks.’
He replaced the receiver and turned to the others. What do you think?’
George responded first. ‘I will be interested to hear what Keith and Mike say, but unless Hannah and Jane have come up with anything significant, I think the Common could be the target area.’
Jane spoke up. ‘To save time, we both came to conclusion that unless Monty or whoever happened to be conveniently standing in the middle of a playing field, the hospital would be an improbable place to have a pot shot at someone. Security is tight, and unless someone could get into the camp and onto one of the roofs, there did not seem to be any line of sight. There are a lot of trees and all access to the hospital wards is internal. The only exterior entry points are used to take patients into the fresh air which is unlikely in December. So, from what we saw on the ground, and the site plans they let us have access to, the only times Monty would be vulnerable would be getting out of his car at the Officers Mess when he arrived and departed. Although we would not discount it entirely, it’s questionable.’ 
‘Thanks for that, but in order to cover everything, if he were to be standing in the playing field, where could a shot come from?’ 
‘Well, the site backs onto flat open farmland and there is no cover.’
‘That answers that question. Keith, Mike what have you found?’
‘Almost the opposite scenario. Although access is secure at the gate, actually it’s a temporary portable barrier which extends across the road, there is a great deal of coming and going in and out of the site. Also, because all vehicles are checked, we noticed that sometimes there is a backup of traffic on the road going through the Avenue and onto the common. One would hope that Monty’s car would get priority, but there is always the danger of his driver having to stop close to Cynthia’s house.  Although the officer commanding was reluctant to let us into the camp, once we explained our purpose, and showed him our ID he was more than happy to help. He doesn’t know the date yet, but the intention is that Monty will meet the officers and men, have one of his famous ‘gather arounds’ and then go on a walkabout. The camp is camouflaged from the air, but there is freedom of access on the ground. There is one thing he did tell us which could be of some concern. As he is planning to come through the avenue, where some of the men are camped, Monty intends to arrive in an open jeep. Now, we could ask his ADC to advise that he doesn’t, but somehow I don’t think that’s going to work.’
‘I’ll ring him anyway. By the way, he did apologise and said he couldn’t make the meeting but wanted to be kept informed about any developments. So, taking into consideration the reports we have got so far, would you agree that we discount the hospital and concentrate on the Camp and the Inspection on the 13th February.’
There were nods of assent around the table. ‘Bert, what about your teams?’
‘Well, we have established round the clock surveillance, but as yet not seen anything out of the ordinary. Neither the Snowdens or Davies’ have left their houses, and the Harringtons car was followed to a shop in Streatley. It was in the car park for about 10 minutes and returned. Everyone remains in place, but we will be changing roles and personnel over the next few days.’
‘Thanks. Jim and I have been doing some research into all three couples. All except Peter Snowden were public school educated, which may account for his inflated ego, almost an inferiority complex in their company. Let’s concentrate on him first. Father was a successful butcher with a number of outlets. Left school at 13 to work with his father, but then pursued a career in the Army. Promoted in the field from Sergeant to Captain at 1st Ypres for an act of gallantry. Came back home for a few weeks of training and was then reassigned and returned to the front. Finished as a Major, not Colonel, but we already knew that. Surprisingly, after the war he took over his father’s shops and was very successful, selling them on in the late twenties at great profit. He could be described as a self-made man. We could not find out much about his wife. She went to private school from a young age and was destined for a good marriage. We wondered what her parents thought of her marrying into trade. She has few interests and is very much beholden to her husband. She can be a little outspoken and intolerant at times, as we have witnessed. Not sure how she spends her time, because she does not seem to have many interests. Both of them seem to enjoy the country life weekend circuit, and as such are acquainted with many of our literary and cultural greats. It wasn’t just name dropping when we first saw them at Denleigh. The fact that they live in a rather small house, means they are unable to reciprocate, which probably suits them well. 
The Davies’. As one would expect they are both Welsh with land in Pembrokeshire, inherited, along with the title, from his father. He has been involved in running the estates since leaving school.  Megan was the daughter of the local Rector, now deceased. Felicity made a few discreet phone calls and it would seem that both are well respected by their employees and although they sometimes get involved in local activities, it seems to be out of a sense duty rather than enjoyment. They have two boys. One is a schoolteacher and has deferment from callup on health grounds, the older one ran a racing stable on the estate before the war but is now in Italy as a Captain.
Now the Harringtons. Bob was indeed a medic during the war, but not a doctor as he led us to believe. In effect he was a senior nurse, but called an orderly as all male nurses were, until he was seconded for special duties in 1915. As yet, we cannot find out what these duties were. He also finished the war as a Major so what he was doing was obviously thought to be far more influential than being an orderly. After the war he became involved in local politics, first as an interest and then almost full time. He could be described as being very much a Tory’s Tory. He has independent means and has been supported by his mother throughout his life. Louise; again, privately educated and then university trained, she graduated from Girton in Linguistics. As a result, she worked with a company in London for while in overseas marketing and despite what she said, she and Bob have both travelled abroad. Her main interest in both school and University, other than knitting,’ he smiled, ‘was shooting. She was in the 1st VI at her school, President of the Shooting club at Girton and was a member of the Cambridge University gun club. Interesting don’t you think?’
That’s all we could find at present, but Felicity is still following some of this up and we’ll get someone else to keep searching in case there’s more.’
‘Does anyone else have any further comments, or do we sit and wait? If an attempt is going to be made at the camp, then we have little time left.’
‘I have a suggestion,’ said Bert. ‘From what you’ve found out, it would seem that although it was Snowden who told Cynthia to be prepared, the main organisers behind this are the Harringtons. I agree that we should still observe the others, but may I suggest that we concentrate our energies on them. My one concern is that, even with taking all possible precautions, there is a possibility that we will be seen in the village. Now, there happens to be a cottage, not far from their house, which has a To Let sign outside. Would it be possible to rent it and put someone in there to keep watch?  It would have to be someone they’ve never seen or are likely to have seen and it wouldn’t be for too long. Just a thought.’
‘That’s worth considering. Thanks Bert, can you look into it and find out if the place is furnished, because that will make life much easier? We don’t want to make it obvious by using removal vans and the like. We would also need to make any transactions on a personal level so as not to make the estate agents suspicious. What do others think?’
‘A good idea,’ said George, ‘but can you source the funds to do this?’
‘Let’s see how much the rent will be, but I’m sure I can find the money somewhere. We need to think of who to put in there. I could ask Felicity and her husband. They would be unknown, and she has always expressed a wish to be more actively involved rather than be in an office all the time. Leave it with me. 
Shall we meet tomorrow, or leave it for a couple of days?’
‘I think the day after tomorrow will be better,’ said George. ‘We may have more to report by then. Do you want me to contact Monty’s ADC again, to bring him up to speed, and to suggest a closed car rather than a jeep? I’m not sure I would envy him having that conversation with Monty.’
‘Yes please. Bert can chase up the estate agent first thing and we’ll make an executive decision tomorrow. OK. 7 on Thurs then. That will be the 25th so we need some action.’
















CHAPTER 44
Bert was on the phone to the Estate Agents as soon as their office opened expressing interest in the cottage on behalf of a writer looking for a quiet location. Once he had dealt with the selling pitch, ‘the four roomed cottage is furnished with a wood burning range, has no electricity or gas, no inside facilities, and as such is being let at a bargain price…’ he was eventually told that the rent was £10 per annum and so a short lease would be pro-rata. It was available for immediate access subject to the relevant forms being completed. Bert explained that he would be in their office in Goring by lunchtime and his client would like to take possession as soon as possible. When asked, he could not confirm how long they would require the property, but he may know by the afternoon.
He then rang Bill
‘I have sorted out the cottage. As the rent was cheap, I made an executive decision and have taken it. I’m going down to Goring to sort out the paperwork and we can have it tomorrow. Has Felicity agreed to use it? If so, tell her it seems to be rather basic, so she’ll need some warm clothes and some candles. It’s furnished, but not sure to what standard. By the way, in case anyone asks I told the Agent that she is a writer seeking peace and quiet, so she might like to bear that in mind.’
‘Well done. She’s looking forward to it, but her husband can’t get away from work so she will be on her own, but that shouldn’t be a problem. I’m not sure if she can drive, if not I’ll get one of our pool drivers to take her down. With all this travelling about, it’s a good job we’re not affected by the petrol rationing.  If she drives herself, we’ll provide the fuel. Can you make sure your teams are aware she’ll be there?’
‘Yes, we’ll look out for her. Are you happy for me to sign the documents or do you need to do it?’
‘No, sign them in your name and I’ll get finance to reimburse you. It will be easier that way. Take it on a three months lease then it will be available through to February if we need it. Can you let me know when everything is arranged? In the meantime, I’ll tell Felicity she is now an active member of the team.’
‘Will do.’
As arranged Bert had completed the administration by lunchtime and having driven herself, Felicity, rather than wait until the following day, collected the keys and was in the cottage by late afternoon, complete with extra blankets, food and numerous candles. She spent the couple of hours of daylight left exploring her surroundings and the village. The cottage did not take long as it was so small, and she was quietly amused by the thought of using the tin bath which was presently hanging on the back wall. She lit the wood burner, placed on top a kettle of water, collected from the hand pump in the back garden, and went outside. It was very central with only a small front garden going straight down to the road via a couple of steps. One advantage was the large bow window which afforded her a very good view of all the comings and goings. It would seem that anyone going to the shop, pub or church would have to pass it. Which reminded her that she had to register her ration book with the shopkeeper first thing in the morning. Her cover of being a writer was fortuitous as she could send letters or reports to Bill acting as her publisher without anyone questioning their regularity. She strolled up to the church and back down the lane to the pub. Her cottage was not very far from the Harringtons so she sauntered by resisting the temptation to have a look.
She could not spot any of the watchers, apart from three who were repairing a hole in road. This hole in effect served two purposes, not only did it provide an excuse for them to be on site during the day, but because it was so large, they would have to keep a watchman on duty overnight. Not a very enviable task at this time of year thought Felicity. By the time she returned the kettle was hot, so she made a cup of tea, and rearranged what little furniture there was by placing a table and chair in front of the window where she could observe and write at the same time. To enhance her role, she had brought some non-essential typed up pages with her and scattered them on the table in case someone just happened to visit or peer through the window, but to make things simple she had not brought her heavy typewriter relying instead on pen and paper. She was all set.
She spent a very uncomfortable night not helped by having to wash in very cold water in the morning. She needed to remember to keep the stove alight all the time with a kettle on top. There was plenty of wood in the back yard. Village life was already a bit of a culture shock. Having lit the stove, she walked across the shop with ration book in hand. 
‘Good morning Madam. How may I help you?’
‘As I will be around for a few weeks I would like to register my ration book with you please and get a few things as well.’
‘Certainly. I hear you’ve taken over the Jones place is that right?’ taking the book from her. 
Felicity was tempted to ask how he knew; she had only been there a few hours. ‘Yes, I came down late yesterday afternoon.’
Before she could say anything else, the door opened behind her.
The shopkeeper acknowledged the arrival.  ‘Morning Mrs Harrington I’ll be with you in a minute.’
‘No hurry,’ she said and then turning to Felicity, ‘You must be the lady who’s taken on the Jones place.’
‘How do they know?’ she thought. It’s like living in a goldfish bowl.’
‘Yes, came yesterday.’  She did not really want to extend the conversation but was forced into it.
‘What do you do?’ asked Louise. 
‘I’m a writer. I needed to get some peace and quiet to finish off my book. A friend who had been in the area walking along the Ridgeway, spotted the place when she lunched in the pub and thought it would ideal.’
‘Will you be here long?’
Felicity was getting slightly concerned about the line of questioning. Was Louise aware of her real motive for being there or just being neighbourly? She reassured herself, thinking that she could not possibly know. How could she?
‘Not sure, depends on how much work I can do. I’ve rented the place until the end of February, so I’ll see then. Having said that, I need to make a start and get into a routine. I will most probably see you again.’
She collected her ration book, forgot all about her shopping, which she would sort out later and walked back to the cottage. By now the water in the kettle was hot enough for tea, which she took across to the table and made herself comfortable facing out over the square. 

Bill rang George.
“Felicity is now in place, so we have the Harringtons covered from all angles. I have asked her to send her reports to one of our agents in Rutland who will then contact me. We were in the RAF together so extremely reliable and he does genuinely have a publishing company which helps. I told her to only use the phone if something happens that we need to know about urgently. If she rang us every day, it could get suspicious for anyone watching the phone box. 
I still cannot find anything else about the special duties that Bob was assigned to, which is a bit frustrating, but I’ll keep trying. Anything from your end?’
‘Nothing as yet from the men in the village. Bert will give them another couple of days to finish their tasks and then move others in. We don’t want them recognised. By all accounts they have already been questioned a couple of times by the locals who seem to be an inquisitive lot. I realise we are meeting tomorrow, but as yet there’s little progress. We seem to spend our time waiting. Incidentally, I contacted Monty’s ADC who said that he would only travel in a closed car or jeep if it was raining heavily. He wants to be seen as it is good for morale.’
‘As good a reason as any I suppose,’ said George, ‘but it doesn’t help us. If I hear of anything today I will let you know, otherwise see you at 7 tomorrow. A thought, if Felicity is sending her reports in the post, there will be a delay even if she does send them on a daily basis. Is there any way we could get someone to pick them up and bring them here? A three-hour journey there and back might be worth it, but we don’t want to establish a suspicious routine. I’ll give it some thought. What is she supposedly writing about? Is it fiction or non-fiction? If it was the latter, she might need photos or documents which could be delivered by courier from her publishers. Sorry, just thinking aloud. It’s a bit tenuous. We couldn’t do it every day. I’ll keep thinking, nothing much else to do at present,’ he sniggered. ‘See you tomorrow.’
Bill went out into the corridor and called Jim and Bert. 
‘Job for you, without having to leave your desks. I’ve had a chat with George and he mentioned something we’d not thought off. Felicity is now in an excellent position to observe without being seen, however her reports will be a day late when we get them.  At least Bert can talk to the others in his role as foreman. Can you try and come up with an idea for getting them to us on a daily basis without anyone one suspecting anything. We would need to make sure she knew what was happening, and she would still need to send stuff in the post as well to keep up the pretence. Any ideas would be welcome. George did suggest couriered photos and documents from her publisher so you could start by developing that idea. Let me know if you think it’s feasible.’
‘Right, leave it with us and we’ll think of something.’

After a light lunch, Felicity want back to do the shopping she’d forgotten earlier. As the shopkeeper cancelled the coupons in her ration book, she asked him about the post.
‘I will need to send some of my work to my publisher, may I ask what time the post gets collected?’ 
‘The van comes here at about 10.30 in the morning and sometimes again in the evening if I ring the office to say I have more to collect. If you are sending anything larger than an ordinary size envelope it’s best to leave it with me and I’ll put it into the mail bag.’ He indicated two hessian sacks hanging on nails behind him.
‘Excellent. In that case can I buy six large envelopes if you have them, and some stamps.’
‘I have the envelopes Madam, but it would be best if you bought the stamps when you bring the letters in because the cost will depend on their weight.’
‘Good point. Just the envelopes then please.’ 
He handed them over, together with her shopping and wished her a good day. As she crossed the road, she noticed a green car was now parked outside the Harringtons. At least I’ve got something to report she thought.’
Before settling down again, Felicity prepared a stew which would slowly heat on the wood stove.  She made enough for two days, to save time. The light was now fading making it difficult to see outside, but she was aware of the car going when the dimmed headlights swept across her curtain. She was certain that nothing else was likely to happen so wrote up a short report which she knew could be added to if needs be but would be ready to go in the post tomorrow. She would need to pad out the contents a little to make it seem like a more substantial package. 
The following morning, she was back in the shop-cum-post office buying a stamp and watching her letter being placed in the sack. On her way out she passed Louise, and another lady who she had not seen before. She gave a cursory good morning and ambled across the road.’
Louise turned to the lady standing next to her.
‘That’s the new resident I told you about yesterday. Supposed to be a writer, but I’m not sure she looks the type. I’ll keep an eye on her. Jack,’ she said addressing the shopkeeper, ‘any gossip on our new arrival?’
‘No, she came in yesterday to buy some envelopes and brought in a letter to post just before you came in?’
‘Where’s the letter going to?’
‘I didn’t look.’
‘Well, can you check now? I’m have my suspicions about that woman. Is she really a writer?’ 
‘I’m sorry Louise, I’m not allowed to take the mail from the bag once it’s in there.’
‘Who’s to know? I only need to find out where it’s going.’ She looked at him appealingly. 
He paused then removed the letter from the bag and read the address. 
‘For the attention of Paul Holness, BK Publishing, Harrier Rd. Braunston. Rutland. Looks genuine to me,’ he added.
‘Many thanks Jack. See you later.’ 
‘Oh, Louise, almost forgot this came for you in the post earlier. Not well addressed, I’m surprised it got here.’ He handed over a small box wrapped in brown paper.
‘Probably a birthday present from my nephew,’ she explained. She placed it in her bag.
When they were outside the shop she turned to Marjorie. ‘What do you think about her?’ 
‘Let’s keep an open mind and see if anything develops before taking any action. Peter is coming back for me later, so we could ask him.’







 









CHAPTER 45
When Peter arrived to collect Marjorie, and was told about Felicity, he was very non-committal.
‘I think you are seeing a problem that’s not there. How could she know anything about us? Look, to put your mind at rest, I’ll check up on the publishers and see if they’re genuine. You’ve people in the village on your side so there will be little that doesn’t escape their attention. Jack is always on the lookout for unusual activity, so he’ll tell us if he sees anything suspicious going on. Frankly, if it wasn’t a genuine hole, I would be more concerned about the workmen. We’ll give them a couple of more days to finish and then see what happens. Let’s get home.’
First thing the following morning, having got a phone number from the operator, Peter rang the publishers and was satisfied that Felicity was indeed who she said she was. She was contracted to write a book on letter writing and interview techniques for job-seekers to be finished by April 1st. 
As soon as the call was finished Paul Holness contacted Bill. 
‘Morning Bill. Well you’ve certainly rattled a cage. Had a call this morning from someone purporting to be a local journalist enquiring about Felicity, your agent. Did she work for me, what was she writing, how long had I known her? That fictitious biography you gave me certainly paid off.  For what it’s worth, I think you should tread very carefully. Unless Felicity gave them this address, which I doubt, they obviously got it from the letter I received this morning. Which would suggest that perhaps someone in the post-office told them. I’ll send it on by the way. I’ll keep up the pretence if they should contact me again and if there’s anything else you need, just ask. See you.’
‘Thanks Paul, I owe you one.’
There was not a great deal to discuss at the meeting that evening. The groups reported the departure and arrival of the Snowdens, the Davies had still not left home, which was a little odd, and although they expected the redirected letter from Felicity, they doubted that it would say anything more. 
There was one piece of news.
‘The good news is that we heard this morning that Monty will be going to the camp on Tuesday 7th, not sure about the time, but it will be in the morning. Bad news, it has been released to the local press so anyone will now have access to the same information. Doesn’t really help us does it,’ George said, rather wearily, ‘but at least we have two confirmed dates to work with, December 7th and February 13th which at least focuses our minds.’
‘Good, I think Cynthia and Alison need to know, so I’ll phone later. It would seem that Felicity has been noticed. I had a call earlier from the publisher who is acting as our intermediary. Someone contacted him this morning on some pretence asking about her. Paul made an interesting point, that the address could only have come from someone in the post-office, so if he is right, that means there may be others in the village who have the same sympathies as the Harringtons, so we need to be careful. It didn’t take them long to check on her. Which raises an important issue. Bert, how are you going to deal with the teams on the ground? They’ve been in place a couple of days, so we need to think about alternative measures. If the 7th is the day then we have twelve days to cover.’
‘We won’t be able to keep the road crew there for much longer as the repair is almost finished, same with the phone group. As we seem at the moment to be dealing with the arrivals and departures of the Snowdens I think one alternative could be withdrawing them completely and have them situated on cars on the two roads out of the village. One could be in the car-park of the pub at the four-way junction covering all the routes on that side. Much easier to control, and we can change personnel and vehicles on a regular basis. However, that would mean that Felicity’s role becomes more important as she will be the only one on site. What do you think?’
‘That could work, although it means that our contact with her would have to be more regular. At present it’s a daily report a day behind. We have to find some other way.
At least they know she is an author and seemingly of no threat to them.’
Bill began pacing the room; often a sign of him being deep in thought. 
‘We could do this the other way around. If we have cars on the access roads, does she need to remain in the village all the time? She has a car, so we could ask her to use a phone box in another village. The only people who might follow her would be the Harringtons, or perhaps someone working with them, and they would be picked up and followed by Bert’s teams. It doesn’t have to be every day because there may be nothing of significance to report, and anyway, we don’t want to make it predictable.  Now they know what she’s doing we could use the courier idea to get a message to her, especially if he was carrying genuine documents from the publisher. If he went into the post-office and asked where she was staying that would also allay any fears they might have that his arrival might be a clandestine meeting. We all know what gossip is like in a village from our experience with Gladys. Would it work?’
Jim was the first to respond. ‘I can’t think of anything better at the moment. It would still allow us to monitor their movements. If we instigate this once the hole is repaired, it also adds weight to the possibility that the road team were genuine.’
‘Anyone see any flaws?’
‘We would have to make sure the teams and cars were changed regularly. If that can happen then I have no objection,’ George replied.
‘In which case, I will leave that all to you Bert. Take Mike with you and sort out the cars, colour will be the same of course, but models need to be different, and then inform the teams of their new roles when their present work is finished. I’ll arrange to get something sent to Felicity. 
Bill went back to his office and called Paul.
‘Another favour if I may. We need to keep Felicity in the village as the only observer, the others have been there too long, so we need to enhance her cover. If I send a motorcycle courier up to you first thing tomorrow, could you provide him with an envelope addressed to her containing documents of some kind with a covering letter with your logo on. I’ll let you make it up. One other thing. Ask the courier to go into the village post-office and ask directions. We want to make this as natural as we can. Will that be possible? He will also have a letter from me to give to her explaining what’s going on.’ 
‘Of course, but I’ve got a better idea. As it happens, I need to come to London for a meeting in the morning near Covent Garden. I’ll meet your courier outside the Opera House at 9.30 then he can go straight to Felicity. It will save him having to come all the way here first. Don’t worry I will make the material as genuine as possible, just in case.’
‘That would be good, many thanks. Owe you two now!’

The handover at Covent Garden was seamless. Paul went on to his meeting and the courier to Aldworth. As arranged, he went into the post-office to ask where Felicity lived.
‘Morning, I am looking for a Mrs Felicity Green. I’ve been asked by her publisher to deliver some research material, but apart from the village, there is no other address. Any chance you know where I can find her?’
‘Ah, the writer. Came a couple of days ago. She’s renting the Jones’ place just across the square.’ He pointed to the cottage. ‘You must have started out early to get here at this time. Where have you come from?’
The courier did not fall into the obvious trap.
‘Rutland. It’s a long journey, but not too bad at this time of the morning. There’s hardly any traffic about and at least the weather’s good. Thanks for your help.’
He left the shop, walked across to the cottage and knocked on the door.
‘Good morning Mrs Green,’ he said very formally, handing her the package.  ‘This is from your publishers, with accompanying letter,’ he continued quietly, ‘we’re being watched…so please sign this delivery docket and I’ll be on my way.’
‘Won’t you come in for a cup of tea?’
‘No thanks. Tempting as it is, this is meant to look like official business.’ 
He took back the docket, touched his helmet in salute, returned to his bike and rode off.
The letter from Bill was self-explanatory.
While this was taking place, Bill had rung Cynthia and Alison to explain about the possible date. As Cynthia had gone out, he was able to share his concerns with Alison.
‘Make sure you stay safe. You may need to come up with some excuse if people question you being there for so long, but I doubt they are interested in you at all. Something could happen within the next few days, so please stay alert. At least you have the advantage of being in close contact with us. We’ve got another meeting tomorrow, but there will be little to report. As soon as I know anything more, I’ll be in touch. Give my regards to Cynthia.’














CHAPTER 46

The meeting the following day was short, as were the next few. There was little to report about any movement, the hole in the road had been repaired and the teams deployed to cars, and Felicity continued to observe from her window and stroll to the shop to post her papers to Paul. She had seen both the Harringtons but only around the village and as far as she was aware, they had not used their car. 
The one thing that slightly concerned Bill was that nobody had seen the Davies’ for some time. They had not been seen leaving their house and nobody had visited them. He consulted with George.
‘What do you think the Davies’ are doing? They’ve not come out of their house for the past ten days, not even to go to the shop opposite, and come to think of it, neither have the Snowdens since Felicity saw Marjorie in Aldworth last week.’
‘Could they have gone to their Welsh estate?’
‘Possibly, but how did they go without being seen. Do we know where they park their car?’
‘There’s no garage attached to the house, but there are some outbuildings around the back. Do you want me to have them checked?’
‘Yes, but as always tell them not to make a big thing of it in case the Davies’ are watching.’
‘I’ll tell them when they next phone me, in about an hour, and get back to you.’
Bill could not work out what part the Davies’ were playing. He thought it through; they were at Denleigh, they were then seen again at the Adlon in Berlin, he was the one on the train and, as Young, took the case to the house and for some reason did not recognise Cynthia. Although, it could have been the other way around, he may have thought she would not recognise him as Davies because they had not seen each other for such a long time. But either way it didn’t make sense.
George rang back later in the afternoon.
‘Their garage is empty. It seems there was a back entrance which is not easily visible so they could have gone out that way. The exit to the road is not on the square, so it’s possible they drove out without any lights, so as not to be seen. I’ll make some enquiries then I’ll take Jim first thing tomorrow and gain access from the rear to check. If we are confronted, I’ll flash my ID, that usually works. Are you busy or do you want to come?’
‘I need something to relieve the boredom. I’m fed up with the waiting and the inaction, so I’ll see you there at 10. In the meantime, I’ll contact the Pembrokeshire police and ask them to check the estate. See you tomorrow.’
When they met the following morning, Bill was able to tell George that the Davies’ were not at their Welsh home and he had asked the police to make a few more enquiries and widen the search.
It was very easy for Jim to pick the lock and they entered the building unchallenged. It was well furnished and apart from a few days dust, it was very neat and tidy. Seemingly, it had not been a hasty departure. They searched room by room and found nothing of interest except for the wardrobes where there were lots of empty hangers, and the bare drawers in the dressing table and chest.
‘Either gone away for good, or for an extended time. Do they own, or rent this place?’
Jim flicked through his notes. ‘Long term lease, coincidentally arranged by the same agents that own Felicity’s.’
‘OK, can’t do anymore here. Bit of a wasted journey, but at least it explains why they’ve not been seen. One thing we can do is check the registration of the car. Could you get onto that Jim and then let Inspector Williams know in Pembroke, he’s dealing with it at that end? Now, do we leave the observers here in case they return, or use them elsewhere?’
‘The latter,’ replied George, ‘from what we’ve seen I doubt if they intend coming back.’

After their return to London it did not take long for Jim to find the car number, YPK 485, which he forwarded to Pembroke. Now all they could do was wait, again. It was now Thursday. Surely something must happen soon thought Bill. The closer it got to the 7th, without any progress, the more likely it will be on the 13th February. 
As it turned out, he didn’t have to wait long. That lunchtime he had a call from a phone box.
‘Artist speaking. Thought you should know that something is going on here. I’ve spotted more people wandering around the area, and one or two have made a point of going into Cynthia’s drive. I think you should warn her. There’s still a lot of military activity on the Common and along the Avenue, but nothing unusual in that respect. All the interest seems to be centred on the house.’
‘Thanks, very much. By the way, I’m sorry you have been there for a long time, but it was necessary. Payment will be made in the usual way.’
‘Not a problem. Rather enjoyed it.  Not painted ‘en plein air’ for a long time and got quite a few reasonable paintings out of it. I’ll stay around until I’m no longer needed.’ 
Bill immediately rang Cynthia.
‘Morning, I have received a message to say that there seems to be a lot of unusual interest in your house. The Artist has spotted a number of faces she’s not seen before. Please take extra care. Can I suggest that Alison moves her car out of sight? These new people may not be aware that she’s there, which might be useful. I’ll get back to you once I have any more information.’
‘Will do. We’ll carry on as normal. Do you want me to ask Gladys about visitors in the shop or leave it? She may have other details.’
‘No, I would leave if for now. Descriptions at this stage won’t make much difference. We know they’re there so that’s all we need. Be careful.’
As soon as he replaced the receiver the phone rang again. It was Jim.
‘It would seem that a car with that registration number took the ferry from Fishguard to Rosslare last Monday. According to the booking form there were two passengers, but not under the name of Davies, they couldn’t decipher the signature.  So, unless someone else was driving, we can assume that the Davies’ are now in Ireland under false names. They’ve had a four-day start, so could be anywhere, especially if they’ve done the obvious thing and changed cars. What do we do now?’
‘A number of the aristocracy have historical links with Ireland. Get someone to check if they’ve any land over there. Other than that, there is little we can do at present. At least we know that they are out of the picture for now so let’s concentrate on what’s going on here. A thought, can you get back to Williams and ask if he can get descriptions of the occupants? A long shot after such a time, but just to make sure. Also, having been caught out in Yattendon, can you get one of the teams to check that there are no back entrances or garages in Ashampstead, we know there aren’t any in Aldworth. Time is running out, so we have to act quickly. Action at last. Jim, is George there, if so, can I speak to him?’
‘Yes, he’s here.’
‘Hi Bill, what can I do for you?’
‘George, I’ve had a hunch. I realise this is very short notice, but with your Branch hat on, can you do some serious digging for me. Some of what I am going to ask may require a court order, but we need to have this information by Monday at the latest. Can you find out from the Davies’ bank and their solicitors, if there has been any unusual activity in their accounts or in any legal matters. You’ve only got this afternoon and tomorrow to deal with the banks, so can you start with them first and get Jim to contact their solicitors. They will probably be in Pembroke.
If you get any problems, quote matters of national security or the Emergency Powers Act 
and I will have one of our legal experts on standby in case we need some backing. I would like to do the same for the others, but not sure we’ll have the time, but you could ask Mike to check on the Snowdens.’
‘OK, we’ll get onto it now.’
Later that evening, Bill was informed that there was a back entrance to the Snowdens’ house, but there was a car in the garage and there were signs that the house was occupied so they were evidently laying low.  As yet, there was nothing from Wales or from George. It was all very frustrating as nothing could be done until all the pieces fell into place.  As it now seemed that the 7th was the likely day for anything untoward to happen, Bill contacted Monty’s ADC and made a suggestion about the former’s safety which he might be amenable to.
He could do no more at present, so went outside and took a walk along the Thames embankment. It was dark and the river looked very grey under the moonlight.  There were few people about, and the city was eerily silent. The only noise came from the wash of the river against the wall, and the occasional sound of a ship’s hooter from downstream.
He sat on a bench under the leafless plane trees and focused on what needed to be done before Tuesday. He was certain he had not missed anything, but it all depended on the group’s next move. Without their instigation, there was nothing that they could be charged with. Unless the could be positively linked to the murder of Edwards, they had committed no offence and all the evidence that Bill and George had was circumstantial. He realised that he was getting chilly in the night air, so turned and walked back to his office. ‘Let’s see what tomorrow brings,’ he thought.





CHAPTER 47
George rang first thing Saturday morning.
‘I’ve had a call from Inspector Williams in my response to getting descriptions of the people in the car. He had no luck, but the man in the office did tell him that there were three people in the car not two, and there’s more. Would you like to guess how the fare was paid?’
‘No idea,’ replied Bill.
‘By cheque, signed by T.G.Edwards.’
‘What? Those cheques have not been used since Penzance,’ he thought for a minute. ‘Whoever is using that cheque book must have got it from Edwards either after he boarded the train or in London from the flat. There was no communication between those on the train, so, if it was the latter it could only have been the person who killed him. Presumably they realised that the cheques would give them away. But it doesn’t explain why it’s being used now. Why not simply destroy it.  Give me a moment, I need to check on something and I’ll get back to you within thirty minutes.’
He disconnected the call, and immediately made another one to Martins Bank.’
‘May I speak to Richard Childreth please?’
‘Certainly sir. You’re lucky he’s in the office this morning; the Directors were meeting through the night, you’ve just caught him before he goes home.’ replied the receptionist, ‘I’ll put you through.’
‘Richard Childreth here. The bank is actually closed on Saturday but how can I help you?’
‘Richard, it’s Bill.  Sorry to delay your journey home, your receptionist told me you were just leaving, but I need a favour. We’ve just been informed that someone has used an Edwards cheque to pay for a boat crossing to Eire. We only know because we had asked the police in Pembrokeshire to make enquiries about the Davies’ down there. Can you find out if that account still has funds in it, and if it has been used elsewhere over the past few weeks?’
‘Certainly, I’ll ring you back.’
‘No, if it’s alright with you, I’ll hang on. We are tight for time.’
‘OK, ten minutes.’
Richard was back in five. ‘That account is still current and has quite a substantial sum of money in it. The Reichsbank have not been topping it up since the war started of course, but they had done so on a regular basis since 1933 when we set up the account at their request.  According to the records, this is the first time it’s been drawn on since Edwards’ payment at the Long Boat Inn, Penzance. Why is it being used now? I suppose whoever it was does not want to withdraw money from their own account and so risked using this one.’
‘Actually, there may be no risk, because the person who did use it, is now in Ireland. Look if it doesn’t compromise your position can you let me know if someone accesses it again as we would have no other source of information.’
‘Don’t worry about that I’ll let you know if anything crops up.  I will be home later, but I’ll make sure that anyone on duty here informs me immediately. Bye for now.’
Bill got onto George.
‘Richard has confirmed that there is a lot of money in the Edwards account, and this is the only time it’s been used since Penzance. He is going to let me know if it is accessed again. Any news from Davies’ bank and solicitors. Thought we might have heard something yesterday.’
‘Not as yet. Will you be in your office all day?’
‘Yes, together with Hannah and Jane so you should get one of us.’
‘Be in touch,’ said George and rang off.
Bill was out of the office when George rang back so he spoke to Hannah instead.
‘Could you let Bill know that we have heard from the Davies solicitors about the estate. They say that Davies instructed them to transfer all rights to his estate equally between his two sons with effect from midnight yesterday. However, there was no mention of money. The estate manager will take charge until such time that either son can take over. According to them, the documentation is watertight. That’s all we’ve got but it does suggest that the Davies are not intending to return. Also, tell him the banks are being a bit more awkward and now it’s Saturday they are being even more obstructive. However, I’ll keep trying.  Should he want to get back to me I am going to be in the office for another hour, then I’m going home for a short break and then back this evening. Bye Hannah.’
Hannah explained everything to Bill on his return. He decided not to disturb George and allow him a well-deserved break, he only wished he could do the same himself. 
Mid- afternoon Mike rang.
‘Hi Bill, some news. After a lot of hassle, we managed to gain access to the Snowden’s bank accounts but there is nothing in them. All the money in their joint current account and their individual savings accounts were cleared and transferred to the Bank of Ireland in Dublin a week ago. They also had share certificates in a safety deposit box and according to the Clerk they’ve gone as well. I had to apply a bit of pressure, so there might be some diplomatic fall out as a result of this, so expect complaints on your desk on Monday, but at least we’ve achieved what we set out to do so that’s something. Incidentally, I promised the Clerk I would not mention his name because he is bound to get into bother over this, but he said he has not had so much excitement in the forty years that he’s been working there, so someone was happy. Is there anything else you want me to do?’
‘No, that’s a great help Mike. I hope that the Davies bank will be as cooperative or will also have an elderly clerk seeking excitement. Get off home now and I’ll contact you if you’re needed.’
‘Thanks, see you Monday.’
It wasn’t until late in the evening that George rang. ‘After lots of threats and a suggestion of contravention of the Emergency Powers Act, I’ve eventually got a response from Davies’ bank. All their accounts have been cleared and funds were transferred to the Bank of Ireland in Dublin last week. Nothing was transferred to their sons.’
‘Exactly the same as the Snowdens. They have obviously planned an escape route of some kind and apart from the estates, they are taking their monetary assets with them. Not sure we can do much about that for the moment, so let’s concentrate on Tuesday. Thanks for that George. If anything happens tomorrow I’ll contact you at home immediately, otherwise try to relax for a few hours.’ 










CHAPTER 48 
There were no further communications that evening from George, Felicity or any of the teams, but Bill decided to stay overnight in the office rather than travel home to think things over.  
Now having the reports from the banks and solicitors it was clear to him that the group had been planning this for a long time. Getting away to Eire, was something he had not considered, but a couple of questions remained, would they remain there or travel on and who was the third person in the car? He could not even be sure that it was the Davies’. The only piece of tangible evidence was the cheque, but he still didn’t know who had passed it and if the officials at Fishguard couldn’t remember then there was no way of finding out. 

Strangely Sunday morning was quiet. There were only two days to a potential incident yet neither the Snowdens nor the Harringtons had moved. The cars were still in place, but they had seen nothing. It was getting to the point where self-doubt was beginning to set in, and both Bill and George were questioning whether or not they had made the right choice in going for the Monty visit on Tuesday rather than concentrating on the 13th February. However, all was to change by late afternoon. 
First there were two calls from phone boxes, one was from Felicity informing Bill that she had seen the Harringtons packing cases into their car and driving off, and the other was from one of the teams on the road reporting that they had seen the Harringtons drive past them rather fast.
Then there was a call from outside Cynthia’s house.
‘Bill, the Artist here.  Something is happening. Two cars have just appeared and are parked in the pub car park. One person has gone to sit in the back seat of the other car. There seems to be a meeting going on and from the little body language I can see, it looks rather intense. I would suggest that you let Cynthia know that she may have visitors soon. If anything else happens, l will ring back.’
Bill immediately rang Cynthia.
‘Just had a report that two cars have turned up at the pub opposite you. You may be getting some unwanted guests. They will only expect to see you, Richard and Mary and may be unaware that Alison is there, so can you ask her to make herself scarce and get out of the way unless they specifically ask for her. If they do know she’s there and ask where she is, make something up. When the road teams get back to me, which should be soon, I’ll get them over to you. If the occupants of the car do come to the house, then basically ad lib and go along with what they want. You have the private line so use it if you can. One of us will be here all the time. I need to go because I have to ring George and bring him up to date. Don’t forget to tell Alison about the…’ The line went dead and he stared at it, pressing the button on phone to try to re-connect, but with no success.
While Bill contacted George, Alison left the room and sat near the top of the stairs out of sight, but where she herself could see the front door and listen to any conversations below.
Ten minutes later Bill received another message.
‘Artist here again, both cars have now gone up Cynthia’s drive. Incidentally, before they arrived, I saw a man on a bike with ladders strapped on and a bucket on the handlebars posing as a window cleaner. He went around the side of the house so I couldn’t see what he was doing.  He could actually be cleaning the windows I suppose, but I don’t think so. What would you like me to do now?’
‘There is something. Do you have your car with you?’
‘No, but it will only take me five minutes to get it from home.’
‘Good, can you go to the four points junction at Aldworth and inform the men sitting in the car in the pub car park to follow you back to Cynthia’s?  I don’t think we should wait until they contact me. If they can pick up the other team on the way, that would be good, but when they get to the house tell them to stay out of sight. Is that OK? Can you call me again when you get back? You may be our only line of communication for a while.
‘Consider it done,’ and she rang off.

Two cars appeared on the front drive and very soon there was a loud knock. Mary went to answer it and as soon as she opened the door three people walked in without invitation.
‘Where’s Lady Cynthia?’
‘She’s in the lounge with her husband. Hey, how dare you march into this house without a by your leave. Very ill mannered.’
They ignored her and walked down the corridor to the lounge. 
Cynthia turned as they entered…Bob and Louise Harrington and Sir John Davies. 
‘Good evening Cynthia,’ said Sir John, brusquely, ‘forgive the intrusion and the short notice but we are calling in our favour,’ he said while removing his gloves. ‘We need to take over your house for a couple of days, but there will be no inconvenience to you. We just need to have use of it.’ He looked around inquiringly. ‘Is there anyone else here apart from yourselves? We will check, so if there is it’s best you tell us now.’ 
‘No, just us. Why do you need it? I thought we had been asked to host an agent not give over our house. And incidentally, why did you ignore me when you dropped of that suitcase?’
‘Ah, that agent didn’t appear, so you won’t have to put yourself out. With regards the recognition, I was surprised to see you here, so by playing the innocent I had hoped to put you off. We had not seen each other for years, and I didn’t want to bring any attention on myself. Obviously, it didn’t work because you identified me, I should have adopted a better disguise, but fortunately it has had no bearing on our plans. Young as a character has disappeared as well. I presume you still have the case and resisted the temptation to open it.’ 
‘Yes, it’s in my study.’
‘Please fetch it for me, will you?’ he said in a manner of someone used to giving orders.
‘May I point out that this is my house, and I am not one of your servants. Tell Bob to get it, it’s at the side of my desk.’
Davies smiled at her then nodded to Bob indicating the direction of the study. When he returned Davies took some time inspecting it, especially the locks. ‘Good doesn’t seem to have been tampered with. Bob, before you sit down, could you make sure that Jack has finished his little job outside and Louise, can you search the house, and make sure there really is nobody else here. Start in the cellars and work up. That’s usually the first place anyone would hide.’
He sat down on the winged chair near the fire. ‘You, Mary isn’t it? Perhaps you would be kind enough to get us some tea.’
Mary was about to object until she noticed a slight shake of the head from Cynthia. ‘I’ll bring it through.’
Bob came back into the room. ‘All done,’ he said, ‘Jack’s gone back to the shop. He offered to come over tomorrow morning in case we need anything, but I told him that wouldn’t be necessary. I do feel slightly guilty that we‘ve rather used him in all of this. But I suppose he has not really done anything serious apart from cutting the phone wire.’

Alison was now in a vulnerable position, she needed to remain hidden but realised that anyone going into the guest room would know it was being used, so while Louise searched the ground floor and the basement, Alison crept along the top corridor to her bedroom, gathered up her belongings into a bag and waited with the door slightly ajar. Once she heard Louise entering Cynthia and Richard’s room at the far end, she chose her time and quickly went downstairs into the kitchen, then to the cellar and left the house via the small door to the garden. She ran across the lawn to the summer house under the cover of darkness.
Louise eventually returned to the lounge.
‘Nobody about. Only two rooms being used, although there was some dry soap on the sink in the guest room, but it could have been there for some time. While at the top I did go up to the tower studio. We can have a better look in daylight, but it would seem to be an ideal spot.’
‘May I ask what this is all about,’ demanded Richard. 
‘No,’ said Bob curtly. ‘You only need to accommodate us for tonight and tomorrow and by Tuesday lunchtime we will have disappeared. Never to enter your lives again.’ He accompanied this with a theatrical flourish. ‘Presumably we can use your spare rooms?’
‘You can. But as we were not expecting guests, we will be short of food so l’ll go across to the shop in the morning,’ said Cynthia.
‘I don’t think that would be wise,’ warned Louise. ‘We’re happy with short rations so you’ve no need to worry.’
Bob and John had remained seated drinking their tea. 
‘Where are the others?’ asked Cynthia.
‘Safe,’ said John. ‘We have had the feeling for some time that we were being watched, so we decided to play with the watchers. Without them realising it we swapped cars and houses. I have been living at the Snowdens for the past few days and they have long gone, along with Megan. Incidentally, the two agents posing as artists were very good, as artists I mean, not observers. We picked them out very early on. We also know Cynthia, that you have been playing a double game. We have had you in our sights for some time now, and some of the individuals you’ve met, at the Ritz for instance, we recognised, even though disguised. You have made the mistake of treating us as amateurs while instead we have been very professional and used our own teams of like-minded people to keep an eye on you. A dangerous game, if I may say so. I’m still not certain about the writer who conveniently arrived in Aldworth, but she doesn’t matter now, and anyway Jack can keep an eye on her.  We made sure we weren’t followed, so nobody knows we are here, so relax. Incidentally, don’t think about using the phone. We’ve cut you off, literally.’
Cynthia didn’t say anything but gave a worried glance towards Richard. 
‘Right, we will sort out our rooms, one at a time so as not to leave you alone, and then we can settle down for the evening. Perhaps you could show us where to go.’
‘Mary will take you to the rooms on the top floor. Am I allowed to go into the garden, I could do with some air?’
‘By all means. As you say this is your house,’ he said mockingly. ‘We’ll get our bags from the car.’
Cynthia was concerned about where Alison could be. The only place she could have hidden, unless she had shuttled around between the rooms indoors, was somewhere in the garden.  She rejected the potting shed and the greenhouse and strolled across to the summerhouse. She didn’t go in, but instead sat on the oak bench outside. She couldn’t be seen from the house, but if Alison was there, she did not want to give her away. She tapped the window lightly. It opened onto the first catch.
Facing the lawn, Cynthia whispered over her shoulder. ‘Are you OK in there?’
‘Yes, found the loungers and a couple of blankets and I have access to the water tap so should be alright, but may have to wee in the flowerbeds though,’ she giggled. ‘What’s going on inside?’
Cynthia explained, adding that the phone lines had been cut. 
‘We are now out of contact. On the other hand, you have access to the next village through the gate at the very bottom of the garden, but they may be watching it. If you can get away unseen turn left at the gate and walk along the track for about a mile. There’s a phone box there.’
‘I’ll hang around here for a while and only use that if necessary. I’m interested in what their intentions are, but I think we have a fair idea. Bill may have got a message to the others so for all we know they are at this very moment ready to storm the battlements, but I doubt that will happen because we are playing a waiting game. You had better go back before they become suspicious. Incidentally, don’t worry about food, I have survived without before. Better to go hungry rather than them knowing I am still around.’
Cynthia sauntered on a little further, before returning to the house carrying a few logs for the fire in her arms. Something to explain the walk she thought.
When she got back, Davies was issuing orders.
‘We don’t want any unwelcome guests tonight, so Bob will you drive one of the cars to the lane behind the house. Just go out of here turn right, then right and right again and you will see a layby. Park the car facing the way you arrived. There is a footpath back across the field. Louise, can you take the other one and park it across the drive and block the gate. Get it as tight as you can. We’re not going to use it again, so a few bumps won’t matter.’

Bill had been in contact with George. 
‘The balloon’s gone up. Had reports from the Artist that there are two cars on Cynthia’s drive, and she has three guests. The worrying thing is that they seem to have cut the phone lines. However, we have Alison inside, as long as she remains undetected, and I’ve got a message to the car teams to gather in the village and to stay out of sight. I don’t think anything is going to happen this evening, but you and I need to get down there early tomorrow, can you make it for nine? I’ll meet you outside the Queen’s Head on the main road in the previous village and we can make our plans there. We need to get to the others if we can. Would it be possible to drop Jim off somewhere along the avenue in some sort of disguise to find the others and get them to the meeting? Tell him to leave one team in situ with Mike, but make sure Bert can be with us. The other car can bring them back. I’ll see you tomorrow unless anything happens this evening. I will contact Monty’s ADC first thing.’











CHAPTER 49
Jim left his flat in London very early the following morning dressed in his now redundant RAF uniform. ‘If I have to turn up in a disguise it might as well be one that I’m comfortable with,’ he thought. ‘Nobody will notice a uniform walking around, even if it is the wrong colour.’ 
So, it was Squadron Leader Jim Redgrave DFC., who parked his car at the end of the avenue and marched, in the manner of an officer on duty, through the parallel lines of the Elizabethan oak trees planted on either side of the track. Walking past the varied military paraphernalia nobody gave him a second look and those who did, offered a perfunctory salute which he returned. The car teams had done a good job in staying out of sight and it took a while to find them. Still in role, and slapping his stick into his gloved hand, he approached both independently and told them where to meet the others. While at the far end of the avenue he could not resist the temptation of peering into the grounds of Cynthia’s house. However, his route was blocked by a large car which had been parked across the entrance, blocking the gate. He looked around it, but not wishing to draw attention to himself by pausing too long, he retraced his steps back through the trees, stopping occasionally to take an interest in what some of the men were doing, as an officer would, got into his car and drove off to join Bill and George. 

Producing his ID card, Bill had managed earlier to persuade the landlord to allow them to sit inside. Not only was this better than being in the garden in the freezing cold, he also provided them with three jugs of coffee. ‘Can’t give you tea,’ he explained, ‘that’s rationed, so only for my regulars when they ask for one.’ He walked back behind the bar, leaving them to their discussions.
There were ten of them round the table as Bill had brought Hannah and Jane with him, Bert had arrived, George and Jim and the four from the cars including Mike and Keith. 
‘I like the uniform Jim. You look very dapper,’ said Jane eyeing him up. 
‘Thanks. There are times when I miss it all, until the burns remind me how lucky I was. No going back. Before I get maudlin, shall we get on?’

As usual Bill took the Chair. 
‘Now as we are all here except Alison, and before we get into the details, I need to tell you that things are not as bad as they might seem. I have a couple of aces up my sleeve, one of which has been there for a long time. Unfortunately, I cannot reveal them until tomorrow, for reasons you will realise then.’
‘Let’s take stock. We now know where everyone is. The Snowdens and one of the others are in Ireland, so we can forget about them for now, the others are now in the house and unlikely to move. We no longer need the cars to remain on watch, but I want one of you to be parked in the back lane behind the house from first thing Tuesday. I am certain that they will use that as an escape route.’
‘They may already have their own car there already,’ explained Jim. ‘When I passed earlier, one car was obstructing the front drive, and although I only had a cursory glance, I couldn’t see the other one on the drive, so they may have moved it. In that case, if it is there you might like to block it in.’ He said with a smile.
‘What they may not realise, unless Gerda and Lena passed the information on after their guided tour at one of the parties, is that we can gain access to the house via the garden door. We would have to be very careful, because they may be looking out for any signs of activity. However, for reasons that will become apparent, I don’t want to use it until almost the very last minute. The ADC has told me that Monty intends to get to the site by noon. He has been in touch with the security people on the base, and they are aware that something may happen, and they have been asked to give his Jeep priority which one would expect anyway. He will not be told until tomorrow morning when he will again be given the option of a closed car, which he is unlikely to agree to, even in winter. He does like to be seen. Before I go on, does anyone have any questions, suggestions, comments? Pass me the coffee would you Bert.’
He replenished his cup and continued. ‘Please interrupt if you think I’ve missed something. Everything is going to happen tomorrow and everyone in the know, apart from Monty, has been informed. Our timings have to be on the mark. I am assuming that they will attempt to take a shot from the tower studio, that gives them a complete arc of fire and all the windows can be opened. Personally, I think they will be out on the roof. They will not risk a noisy shot, so although it may detract slightly from the accuracy, I think the weapon will be fitted with a silencer. We know from the shell that Keith and Mike found at Churn, that they have a powerful weapon capable of doing a lot of damage over a long distance, so think what it could do over three hundred yards. Our aim, if you excuse the pun, will be to stop the assassin making the shot, although in order to charge them with anything we need to catch them in the act of attempting to carry it out. Does that make sense? Whatever happens they will try to make an escape, probably over the back fields which we will have covered. If possible, I would like to apprehend them in the house, and this will be George’s task because he has the power of arrest. This is my suggestion; stop me if you want to. I want to go through this now, because we will need to remain silent tomorrow and rely on hand signals. At 0900 hours I want the car to be parked in the back lane. 
At the same time, I want all of us in staggered groups of three to come across the back fields and into the summerhouse, regroup and then across to the garden door into the cellar. Now, the problem is that there is no cover, so as we have all done some military training and it is not very far, we will leopard crawl so we can keep low. Personally, I think they will be more intent on other things, but I don’t want to take the chance. All OK with that?’
‘What about my new trousers?’ asked Hannah with a wide grin.
‘Tough,’ retorted Bill, again with a smile. ‘We have no idea where anyone will be, so once we have got into the cellar we will need to be very quiet and attempt to make a reconnaissance of the house.  As we know they will be in the top tower, I want Keith and Mike to stay on the ground floor to thwart any escape, while George and I attempt to get as close to the studio and roof as we can.  Alison will also be inside, but she is better served protecting Cynthia and the others. Are we all happy with that?’ 
‘Let’s just hope it doesn’t rain so we don’t get wet across the field. Never did like getting muddy,’ said Bert. It was always best to have some levity at times like this they thought.

Neither Cynthia or Richard had slept well, so were revitalised by the coffee and toast that Mary had provided in the kitchen. In the house Davies was still assuming command. 
‘We need to get on and plan what we are going to do tomorrow. We know that Monty will be driving past at around noon, so we need to be in place by at least 11.30 in case he’s early. Bob, I want you and Louise to do a dry run. Set up the rifle, calibrate the sights and find your best firing position. Have you decided yet who is taking the shot?’
‘I am,’ said Bob, ‘after all, this is what I was trained for during the last show. Not sure how they found out about my shooting skills, but whoever it was certainly did me a favour and got me out of nursing. I can set it up myself so no need for anyone else to come, in case we might be seen. However, a couple of cushions might help, and I need to make sure that the bipod doesn’t slip, although I may find it is easier to handle without.’
From the look on her face it was obvious that Louise was disappointed not to have control of the weapon, despite her having a near perfect grouping, when they put it through its paces at Churn. 
Davies looked at the others. ‘You three,’ turning to Cynthia, Richard and Mary, ‘Stay around here. No wandering except in the garden where we can still see you. If anyone goes into another room, Louise will go with you. I’ll go to the tower and help Bob sort himself out.’
Cynthia’s thoughts went to Alison in the summerhouse. While Louise stayed with Richard and Mary, Cynthia ambled across the grass and went through the previous routine, tapping on the window and awaiting a reply.
She continued to face the lawn but leant back on the bench. ‘How’s it going?’
‘Not bad, a bit stiff. Despite their name the loungers were very uncomfortable, so I slept on the floor.’
‘We are being watched. Louise is playing minder and the other two are in the tower. If we get a chance we will try and get some food out to you.’
‘Not a problem. I have the water, although the facilities leave something to be desired. I sat on a spiky plant earlier before anyone was up, and its itching like mad now. Hey ho. Later, I may try to get back into the cellar, so I am at least closer at hand.’
‘That’s not a bad idea. None of them have been down there, apart from Louise on her search. You should be alright and there are some cupboards to hide in should you need them. In all seriousness, what does it matter if they find you? They know we cannot contact anyone; you would be just someone else to babysit. I may see you later. If you’re coming, I’ll try to leave some food in there. Bye.’
She returned to the house, rubbing the chill out of her hands. 
The rest of the day was very boring. Cynthia and Richard amused themselves reading and doing crosswords, and surprisingly Louise took out her knitting. Mary was quite happy making endless coffee and managed to gather enough food for lunch and dinner. Cynthia remembered to leave some in the cellar on the pretext of getting some coal. Davies spent time going over some documents and Bob had the rifle on his lap cleaning and caressing it. He had always been obsessed with making any rifle or pistol spotlessly clean so there could never be the possibility of any of the mechanism going wrong. Once satisfied, he dismantled it and put it back in its sleeve, before he set about polishing the sight. There really was nothing else to do until the morning. After dinner and a nightcap, they all drifted upstairs to bed, at almost the same time that Alison was making her entrance into the cellar. She ate the food left for her and waited awhile until all was silent and then very quietly opened the door into the kitchen and through to the main house. The embers in the lounge fireplace were still glowing so she sat for a short time getting warm before returning to her hiding place. There was nothing she could do here for the present though tomorrow could be an exciting day.
























CHAPTER 50
Tuesday morning was a typical winter’s frosty morning with ice crystals on the grass and a clear blue sky, which meant that there was no way Monty would arrive at the camp in a closed car. 
Bill and the team had stayed overnight in Newbury so they were able to be in place early. As arranged, at 0900 one of the cars drove around to the back lane taking some of them as passengers, while the other members walked the same route that Bob had driven on Sunday evening. His car was still there tucked into the hedge. As the team gathered, they made sure that they kept out of sight of the tower studio which could be clearly seen just a few hundred yards ahead of them. 
‘OK, before we go, I got hold of Monty’s ADC yesterday and he is now fully up to date with what we’re doing. I had a thought last night, we need to have someone with the car just in case, so Ken you stay here. I don’t envisage anyone getting this far but just in case you can block the road. We can’t do it now because we would deny access to the houses down the lane, but Ken, no heroics.’
He nodded.
Remember the drill we went through last night. Across this field, under the wire fence into the garden, its only single strand so easy to crawl under, then onto the summerhouse. We’ll RV there first. We won’t need to crawl the last bit to the house, just use the natural cover in the garden. When the first group gets to the cellar door make sure you keep it open. From this point on there will be no verbal communications, hand signals only. We’ll go in single file, so we will only make one trail. Everyone happy?’
‘Yes,’ said George,’ but it’s been a long time since I crawled across a field. I hope they haven’t had cows in there recently, that really would mess up your trousers Hannah.’ He glanced across at her and received a sardonic smile. It was always good to relieve the tension with a bit of banter.
‘Ready to go?’ 
There were nods of agreement around the group. 
‘Hannah, Jane and Jim, you go first. Then Keith, Mike and Bert, then George, and Pete and I’ll bring up the rear. We’ll leave a five-minute gap between each group. 
By the way, Mike, where did you leave the other car?’
‘It’s at the side of the shop, easily accessible should we need it later.’
‘Good. If everything goes to plan, we will only need it to get home tonight,’ he smiled.
He tapped Hannah on her shoulder. ‘Off you go.’
Within twenty minutes they had arrived at the summer house all wet and grassed stained from crawling through the frost. For one moment, Bill became very concerned that the trail they left across the field could be seen, but the temperature was rising and the only one line could easily have been left by a deer or something.  
They sat on the floor for a few minutes to gather themselves and in some cases get their breath back.  Bill tapped Hannah again, and she led her group out and using the flower beds as cover made her way to the garden door. She just hoped that when opened it wouldn’t squeak. Within minutes they were all inside where they were surprised to find Alison. 

So much was happening in the house that nobody would have seen their arrival. Mary and Cynthia had rustled up a breakfast and Richard made the coffee. He needed something to do. He should have been in the office by now, so was aggrieved that his routine had been disturbed.  Davies was wandering around trying to look busy, and Louise and Bob were in the studio sitting against the wall below the windows.
‘I’m not sure we should be doing this Bob. Why don’t we cut our losses and leave now?  We could easily drive off and join the others in Ireland and nobody would know.’
‘Don’t get cold feet now. We have been planning this for ages. This has been our task ever since we had the code word from Haw Haw. We’re in too deep now to simply give up. What would the others think?’
‘Fine. I’m not really bothered what the others think, I only wanted to express my opinion and give us a way out. Are you ever going to stop cleaning that rifle?’ 
Bob laid it down and went outside to arrange the cushions while Louise went to the kitchen to get a coffee.
Davies came in and looked at her. ‘Do we need to get our bags into the car, or shall we leave them here and travel light? I don’t really fancy traipsing across the field with suitcases. I know Bob won’t like it, but we will leave the rifle here as well. It will be an incumbrance and we’re unlikely to need it again. What do you think?’
‘Once Bob has changed, we can leave the cases and travel as we are. She looked at her watch. It’s eleven so we need to get organised.’ She called upstairs to Bob while Davies went to the guest room to get his things.
Cynthia and Mary had remained in the lounge letting everything happen around them. They felt totally out of place and to some extent were afraid of what might happen to them after the attempt, especially as Davies seemed to be aware of her dual role. She couldn’t sit still any longer so went into the garden just to get out. It was all getting a little claustrophobic and she needed some air. She checked to see if Alison was in the summerhouse by going in on the pretext of getting a couple of hand tools. With those in hand she then went into the cellar and found the team. Bill immediately put his fingers to his lips. Cynthia gave them all the thumbs up sign and indicated to her watch. She mouthed 11.30 and pointed her finger upwards. Bill nodded. 
Cynthia left the cellar and went over to the flower beds to avoid suspicion. Richard came out to join her. 
‘How much longer do we have to be held captive here? Bill seems to have forgotten about us. We could literally be in the firing line.’
‘No need to worry,’ she answered, ‘all in hand.’ She glanced towards the garden door. 

Indoors the tension was rising. At 11.20 Bob came downstairs dressed in the clothes that had been left in the suitcase. The idea had always been to be disguised as a woman, at least to begin with, in order to throw off any pursuers who were looking for two men and a lady. He left his auburn wig on the hall table to be picked up later. At 11.30 all three moved up into the tower. 
Bill looked at his watch, then opened the doors to the kitchen and the garden. Alison beckoned to Cynthia and Richard to come back in, while the others left the cellar and took up their prearranged positions. Mike and Keith remained at the bottom of the stairs. Hannah, Jane and Bert went onto the second floor and George, Jim and Bill went to the stairs leading to the studio. Timing was now really important.

Davies and Bob were out on the roof while Louise remained by the studio door. The rifle was set up and Bob lay prone behind it. He kept wiping his hands on his skirt and looking at his watch. After a while they could hear cheering coming from down the road. Monty was coming. Davies squatted down. Bob placed his finger on the trigger. The noise got closer and a jeep came in sight.
‘Oh my god, there are three of them all with two cap badges.’ cried Bob. ‘Three Montys in three jeeps and they’re all facing the other way, so which one do I target?’ he shouted.
‘None of them,’ said the voice behind him. ‘Put the gun down Bob and step away.’
He turned to see Louise standing against the door frame holding a pistol in both hands in a range position. 
‘One more time Bob. Move away or I’ll shoot.’
‘What the hell are you doing?’ screamed Davies. ‘We’ve only seconds left. Give me the gun.’
With her eyes remaining on Bob she replied calmly, ‘No, and stay where you are.’
At that moment Bob picked up the rifle again and was shot through the hand. 
‘Next time it will be more serious,’ she said. ‘For the last time step away.’
Davies attempted to rush her but was wounded in the arm, not by Louise, but by Bill who was now standing next to her at the door. He looked at her and whispered, ‘Well done.’
Bob, realising that the cavalcade had driven past rose to his knees and looked at Louise.
‘Why? We have been planning this for ages. Why? Why?’ he was almost in tears.
‘One day I may tell you, but for now, let’s just say that it was all getting out of hand and has been for a long time.’ 
Davies stood holding his arm staring at her, absolutely dumbfounded. 

She gave her gun to Bill, turned and went downstairs to the lounge where she sat in the armchair and put her head in her hands. It had been a momentous decision but one she did not regret, although she did shed a few tears. Cynthia, Richard and Mary just looked at her astonished. They were unaware of what had happened on the roof.
Bill and the others came downstairs with Bob and Davies in front of them. 
‘Mike, can you bring the other car over from the shop and Keith, can you go across the field and tell Ken he can stand down, then come back with him?
‘George, these are all yours,’ he said pointing at Bob and Davies. The former was holding his hand, now wrapped in a scarf to staunch the blood and Davies had his arm tucked inside his jacket. A large dark stain was spreading over the front. Bob looked a rather forlorn and ridiculous figure dressed in his lady’s clothes, but Davies was more arrogant and self-assured.
‘This won’t stop us you know. We might have failed this time but there will be others.’
‘Oh! do shut up,’ said Cynthia, finally losing her patience. ‘You have been a spent force ever since Mosley was interned and lost his interest in politics and the balance of the war tipped in our favour.’
‘But we could have changed everything. An army without a commander would be useless. We would have delayed any potential invasion.’ His voice was getting louder and louder
‘If you really believe that then you are totally misguided and foolish.  One man does not make an army. There would always be others to take his place,’ replied Bill.
Bob looked across at Louise. ‘I still cannot understand why you did this. John’s been in the background, but you’ve always been our leader on the ground, despite what Snowden thought. Why the change of heart?’
‘Not now Bob, it will all come out in the wash. I am really sorry you did not take my offer earlier this morning. We could have got away, but you were too intent on following the party line, what party there is left. You left me with no alternative.’ She turned away. 
Mike came in. ‘Both cars are here George. Shall I load them up?’
‘Yes, but first can you find a medic from the camp to sort these two out for the trip back. I don’t want blood all over my car. You and Ken deal with that while I stay here with Bill to wind things up. I’ll catch up with you later.’
Ken and Mike took one each and led them to the car outside the front gate. They were joined by Bert and Keith.
George looked at Bill. ‘What do we do about her?’ he asked indicating Louise. 
‘Nothing,’ said Bill. She was one of the aces up my sleeve…remember?’ 
All the remaining team remained silent.  He looked at Louise. ‘Do you want to explain or shall I?’
‘It will be better coming from you.’
‘Perhaps you would all like to take a seat,’ he paused. 
‘Louise has been working with me for a long time. I’m sorry I had to keep it from you, but I could not risk compromising her position and indeed her safety. You may remember that we had a short conversation at Cynthia’s second party. Louise explained that she had had enough and didn’t like the way things were going. Initially, she was all for the change in the political scene, but once it became violent and the speeches and rhetoric became more extreme, she wanted out. How am I doing?’ he looked at Louise. ‘Do you want to take over?’
She nodded.
‘I couldn’t stand it anymore. What started off as a bit of a game was now becoming very serious, especially as the Davies got in with the German crowd. They both idolised Hitler, even before they met him in Berlin. Megan in particular. On the surface she may seem mousey and under John’s thumb, but she was more fanatical than the rest of us. She was the one who shot Edwards. She had realised, even before he arrived in London, that he could be the weak link, so she planned it meticulously. She also took the cheque book. I found myself in a difficult position. I could not leave, because my life may also have been in danger because I knew too much, so I took the next option and offered my services to Bill as an insider. I went along with everything they wanted to do, and I maintained the role of leader. I knew I would be doing it alone because I could have no contact with either Bill or the rest of you. So, it was me on that train and it was me who brought the gun back to our house and it was me who tested it on the ranges at Churn. I am a very good shot myself, having been in the team at Girton, and I was hoping they would allow me to use the rifle so at the last minute I could refuse. But for some reason John insisted Bob should do it. So, I was my own backup.  Bill must have realised I was vulnerable and sent me a gun via the post-office in the village. It was an innocent looking package and even Marjorie who was with me at the time, didn’t question it. Incidentally, most of the observers watching the house and Cynthia were recruited from remains of the BUF members.’ She looked at Cynthia. ‘ Be assured that I would have broken ranks and told you if you had ever been in any danger.’ 
She looked at Bill. ‘John was right when he said we picked up your observers very easily. They weren’t very proficient.’
‘But that was the point,’ explained Bill, ‘by concentrating on the artists he didn’t see the others. Nor did he spot the elderly lady at her easel who is still across the road  as we speak and has been feeding us information throughout, or the old man walking around the village laying flowers on the grave or visiting the church. Both work for us and are a lot younger than they seem. Our one unexpected bonus was Gladys.’
He scanned the room. One last thing. I did say I had two aces. The other was of course the ‘three Montys’. I had arranged with the ADC to provide two other people dressed in Monty’s usual jacket with mock-up berets, in similar jeeps. We couldn’t stop Monty coming in an open car, but we could provide some confusion. Incidentally, Monty was told this morning, and was suitably non-plussed. Took it all in his stride.
I think that’s all for now. We need to have a debrief at some point, but we can leave the technicalities to George and his team.’ He turned to Cynthia, Richard and Mary.
‘I have to say that you have all been brilliant throughout this. It could not have been easy maintaining a role you were all unhappy with, allowing your house to be used as a venue by us to weed people out and as an assassination point. We may not call upon you again, but I hope we may keep in touch just in case,’ he said with a smile.
‘Right, let’s gather everything together and get back to London and leave these people to get their lives back.’ He looked at Louise. ‘What would you like to do, come with us or go back to the cottage?  Your car is still here, and Jack would have been picked up by now. It’s entirely up to you. We all need to meet up again soon to sort things out, but for the moment you’re not required.’
‘If you don’t mind, I’ll go back to the village. I will feel safe there.’




















EPILOGUE
It did not turn out as planned. A couple of weeks later Louise’s cottage and the one next door were destroyed in a gas explosion and she, and her elderly neighbour were killed. Nobody claimed responsibility and it was seen as an unfortunate accident, but it did not go unnoticed that before he was arrested Jack would have had time to inform someone of Louise’s betrayal.
The Snowdens and Megan remain in Ireland, at least for the time being. 
Bob and Davies were tried for attempted murder and crimes against the state ‘in camera’ for security reasons, and gaoled. The judiciary realised that there was not enough evidence to try them for treason.
And Cynthia…she received an OBE for ‘services to war work’ in the next honours list. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This project started many years ago. 
Having written a number of successful academic books for him, my friend and publisher, Paul Holness, challenged me to write a novel as it was a style of writing I was not used to. He didn’t think I would do it…well, although it is years past the deadline…here it is.  The Coronavirus lockdown has given me the opportunity to find a block of time where I could once again get back into the routine of writing. It may not be a prize winner, but it was a cathartic experience and helped save my sanity during some of the dark days.  
Thanks Paul.

I would also like to thank Sue Nicholson and Sue Ball who commented on the individual chapters as I wrote them… I admire their resilience.


























